
Set in the world of League of Legends, Legends of Runeterra is the strategy card game where skill, creativity, and cleverness determine your success.

In LoR, you can:

Build decks with your favorite League champions (and new characters) from the regions of Runeterra, each with their own style and strategic advantage.
Face off in dynamic, alternating combat full of opportunities for outplay.
Earn cards for free as you play or buy exactly what you want in the store—you’re in control of your collection.
But that’s just the beginning—check out this video for an in-depth look.

What platforms is LoR available for? Is it cross-platform?
LoR is being developed for both PC and mobile (coming at launch), and will be playable cross-platform.

How can I get access to LoR now?
You can pre-register right now for a chance to play on PC during a special preview patch and during the closed beta in early 2020. The Announce Preview Patch will be open from October 15 (7 PM PT) to October 20 (7 PM PT), and will be followed by another preview patch in November.

You can also watch LoR live on YouTube and Twitch for a chance to get instant access.

YouTube:
Link your Riot (or existing LoL) account to your YouTube account. You MUST do this in order to get a chance at instant access.
Watch LoR live streams on the Riot Games, Legends of Runeterra, and League of Legends channels.
If you get access, you’ll be notified via the email associated with your linked Riot account.
Twitch:
Link your Riot (or existing LoL) account to your Twitch account. You MUST do this in order to get a chance at access.
Watch LoR on any Twitch Channel.
If you get access, you’ll be notified via the Twitch notifications panel and the email associated with your linked Riot account.
When will LoR release?
You can pre-register right now for a chance to play on PC during a special preview patch and during the closed beta in early 2020. The full launch, including mobile, will be sometime in 2020—as soon as we’ve landed on an exact date, we’ll let you know.

Roadmap_Comp_v13_small.jpg
What languages does LoR support?
LoR currently supports English, Korean, Japanese, French, Italian, German, and Spanish (Spain). We’re working on additional languages for launch and beyond—more info to come!

Is there a pre-registration reward?
All pre-registered accounts will receive an exclusive Moonstruck Poro Guardian once Legends of Runeterra fully launches in 2020. To redeem this variant for the Poro Guardian, you’ll just need to login once during beta (though you won’t get the variant until LoR launches) or within seven days after LoR launches. Don’t worry, your poro pal will wait for you.

Why is Riot making a card game?
A lot of us have been playing card games since we were kids, so we know the issues with the genre: Spending an entire paycheck just to try another deck. Over-the-top randomness deciding which player wins. Playing against the same decks over and over, and cards that stay broken way too long.

So we asked ourselves: what if we could change all that?

Basically, we’ve spent a lot of time thinking about what we’d do differently. And now we have a chance to shake up the genre by keeping what’s great, improving what’s not, and adding some new twists of our own.

So we’ve been hard at work making the best card game we can imagine—one that we hope players everywhere will love. We’re pretty excited to show players what we’ve got so far, and we can’t wait to hear what you think!

What’s different in LoR?
Beyond bringing the world of League of Legends—including the champions, characters, creatures, and regions of Runeterra—to a totally new game, there are three big things we aim to do differently with LoR:

Strike the right balance between accessibility and strategic depth.
Give players more choice and control when it comes to getting cards.
Support a diverse meta and endless experimentation with frequent releases and balance updates.
That’s really just scratching the surface—check out this video for all the details.

Who is LoR for?
League players who love strategy and card game players looking for something different should feel right at home with LoR, but we hope players of all types can find something they love about our take on the card game genre.

Do I have to pay to get started in the game or to unlock certain things?
Legends of Runeterra is free to play. There are two in-game currencies: Shards you earn through play, and Coins you can purchase anytime.

Here’s how unlocking stuff works in LoR:
As you play, you’ll complete quests and earn experience to advance and automatically unlock new cards, but which region you unlock first is totally up to you. You decide where your cards come from, and can switch regions whenever you want, which makes assembling your dream deck a whole lot easier.

Once a week, you’ll also unlock chests from the Vault. The Vault levels up as you play and upgrades the chests inside, which increases the number of cards you get from each. Individually, both the cards and chests have a chance to upgrade into something even better, and at level 10 and above, you’re guaranteed a champion.

Sometimes you’ll encounter wildcards, which can be turned into any card you want—no guessing required. A limited number of additional wildcards are available in the store, which is replenished with a new stock each week.

We know that sometimes you just want a guaranteed way to get specific cards. So instead of waiting for the right drop, you can unlock cards for your collection using the Shards you’ve earned or the wildcards you’ve acquired through play or purchase.

Bottom line: In Legends of Runeterra, you will never pay for randomized packs, and you have a bunch of different ways to get the cards you actually want and build multiple decks for both casual duels and the competitive meta.

When it comes to cosmetics, there are free base options that every player starts with: the Summoner’s Rift Board and the Poro Guardian. Stay tuned for more details on other ways to personalize your LoR experience in the future.

Why are you limiting how much players can spend on cards?
It’s a good question, with a slightly complicated answer.

The summary version is that we want to ensure you always have something you’re looking forward to unlocking, and that you’re constantly discovering new cards and strategies. Slowing down how quickly the entire set of cards can be unlocked is one method for helping us accomplish that goal. There’s a lot more to it than that, so expect to see an article soon that dives deep into how card acquisition will work in LoR.

Does LoR include all the champions and factions from League of Legends?
Currently, LoR features six major regions of Runeterra—Demacia, Noxus, Ionia, Piltover & Zaun, Freljord, and the Shadow Isles—and 24 champions (four from each of those regions). League players will probably notice that there’s a lot more of Runeterra to still be explored...

Will LoR have its own story and champions or will it co-exist within current League lore? Will there be any new and unique champions in LoR?
Every character and card in the game comes from a region of Runeterra, the same world that the champions from League of Legends hail from. You’ll encounter some familiar faces and discover completely new ones.

Will there be a ranked system?
Absolutely—it’s currently in development.

Will there be a “limited” or draft-based game mode?
Definitely—we plan on sharing some details very soon.

Can I play with my friends?
We’re still working on the friends list and a friend challenge feature—both are currently set to be ready for closed beta in early 2020.

What are LoR’s minimum specs and supported operating systems?
Windows
64-bit Windows 7, 8.1 or 10
3 GHz processor
4 GB RAM
GPU with 512MB+ VRAM
Mac OS
Not supported.
Mobile (iOS & Android)
Specs coming once we release LoR for mobile.
Is LoR going to be an esport?
We believe that wherever there’s dedicated competition, there’s an esport in the making. However, this isn’t something we’re aggressively pushing to happen. For now, our focus is entirely on building the best card game we can imagine—one that we hope players everywhere will love.

How long has Riot been developing this game?
The idea of a League card game has been around for a while at Riot (what can we say, we’re fans). We’ve had several prototypes over the years, but Legends of Runeterra itself was largely built over the last couple years.

Is LoR finished? What’s a preview patch?
LoR is still in active development, but we’re gearing up for beta in early 2020. However, the League Ten Year Anniversary was just too good an opportunity to pass up for sharing an early preview with League players. From October 15 (7 PM PT) to October 20 (7 PM PT), we’re inviting players to join us for a special “preview patch,” to be followed by another in November.

These preview patches are a way for us to give you an early look at the game while it’s still in development, showcase new features as we go... and squash some bugs in the process.

This first one is all about the core experience—which includes getting cards, building decks, and playing games—so you can try out the fundamentals before we add more stuff. And, as a bonus for this Preview Patch, we’re giving you a bunch of wildcards up front to help jump-start your deckbuilding experience.

Can I spend money during the preview patches?
Yup! The preview patches are a great opportunity to get early player feedback on what we’ve built so far, and LoR’s business model is something we’re particularly excited to show you. We're really excited we get to focus less on selling packs and more on the things that make a card game great: deep, interactive strategy; frequent releases and balance updates; and endless experimentation.

Any money you spend during the preview patches will be carried through any pre-launch account resets in the form of Coins (with any purchased content refunded to Coins).

We want LoR’s progression to feel great for players regardless of how much they spend, so let us know what you think about it!

Will there be account resets?
Yes, at least one prior to launch. You’ll keep any Coins you’ve purchased and get back any you’ve spent during the preview patches or closed beta when LoR launches.

Is Riot working with anyone to make LoR?
LoR is mostly being developed at Riot, but we’re working with three fantastic art partners: SIXMOREVODKA, Kudos3d (partner studios for card art) and Beyond-FX (partner studio for VFX). Working closely with our veteran, in-house art team, our partners are playing a critical role in making LoR a game that lives up to Riot’s high artistic standard, and takes players deeper than ever before into the world of Runeterra.

We also work with several external parties who provide functional QA, localization QA, and compatibility testing services that help ensure LoR hits the quality bar players deserve.

Why doesn’t LoR use Riot Points (League of Legends’ paid currency)?
There are two main reasons. First, Riot is working on multiple mobile games (LoR and League of Legends: Wild Rift), and, as it turns out, both the Google Play Store and Apple App Store actually don’t allow games to share currencies (for a bunch of good reasons). This restriction and other eccentricities of cross-platform currencies pushed us towards an independent paid currency (Coins) for LoR.

Second, we’re trying some interesting new stuff with LoR’s business model (see earlier questions for more info on that), and plan to actively fine-tune our system prior to launch as we gather data and hear what you think. An independent paid currency will give us the freedom to make any necessary changes in the run up to launch, without worrying about cross-game ripple effects.

Do I need the League of Legends client or a LoL account to play LoR?
No to both! Legends of Runeterra is a standalone download. If you have an existing LoL account, you can use it to pre-register, but those without one can easily make a Riot account while pre-registering.

How do I choose a game name in LoR? Will LoR use my League of Legends summoner name?
If you don’t have an existing League of Legends account, you’ll be asked to create a game name. You can’t change this name in the LoR client once you’ve created it (for now), so pick a good one.

If you have an existing LoL account, your LoL summoner name will be used to create your LoR game name and tagline. If you change your summoner name in LoL, it will change your name in LoR.

We’re still working on game names in LoR, so expect updates once we implement the friends list and social panel during closed beta in early 2020.

How can I contact player support?
Head to https://support-legendsofruneterra.riotgames.com.

How long does one game of LoR usually take?
Games take around 10 to 15 minutes to finish, but we’re warning you now: you may end up playing all night.

How are you handling cheaters?
Riot is deeply committed to competitive integrity in all our products. We have detection and protection services in place on LoR, and will take any and all necessary measures to preserve a level battlefield.

I’m interested in creating a website, app, bot, etc. for LoR, how can I get started?
Head to the LoR section of our Riot Developer Portal.

I’m a member of the press or a content creator and interested in covering LoR or making LoR content, how can I get started?
Head to www.riotgames.com/en/press for starter assets or contact us with inquiries at media@riotgames.com.
Now that Legends of Runeterra has officially been announced, we want to share how our approach to making a card game is different from what you may have seen before. If you’re the kind of player that wants the full picture straight from the source, this deep dive into LoR’s design is for you.

This Thing We Call Progression
When it comes to card games, how you get the cards is almost as important as what you do with them.

Yet even with the move from paper to digital, the genre continues to be built on a foundation of randomized card packs. The typical systems for card acquisition—what we call “progression”—are notorious for prioritizing business over experience. It’s common to require players to make repeated purchases with little to no control over the outcome, and the best stuff is often far out of reach. For a genre that’s all about having choices and making decisions when building a deck or dueling an opponent, some players find that kind of card acquisition pretty frustrating.

Ok, we’re those players. We find that frustrating. But we know we’re not alone.

So if you’re someone that has felt the pain of paying for random packs and not having control over your collection, the way we’re designing progression in Legends of Runeterra might be exactly what you’ve been waiting for.

Here’s how we’re trying to build a better card game.

Mad Scientists and the Wild West
Let’s start where every good game should: the fun. Make no mistake, we wouldn’t be developing a card game if we didn’t love the genre. And despite the flaws in typical progression systems, we still believe the most fun happens whenever you get new cards.

It’s not just the thrill of seeing what you pulled. It's the possibility of what you can do with it. Even after you collect the cards for the perfect deck and master playing it against every matchup, odds are you’ll seek out another. For those more familiar with League, it’s a lot like when you decide to go all-in on a new main. Something draws us to beginning the process all over again, to that initial period of imagining and crafting a new strategy.

BKIT19_Client_SS_08_en_US.MOV.Still001.png
The deckbuilder
The best example of this happens right after a new release. There’s a huge batch of new stuff you get to try. Everyone’s developing their strategies in real time and figuring out how they fit into the evolving meta. Most of all, no one is completely sure of what works just yet. Anything goes in the post-expansion wild west, and we’re all in it together.

It’s an amazing time of experimentation and discovery... and it’s over in almost no time at all. Mere days, in some cases. And if the next set of cards is a long way out, you could be chewing on that stale meta for a while.

In a perfect world, that moment of experimentation never ends. Just as the meta is becoming predictable, something new appears and the surprises start again. Likewise, just as you’re settling into a routine with a strategy you’ve mastered, a new card catches your eye and you start dreaming up a totally different deck.

In our experience, that’s some of the best fun card games have to offer. So that’s the challenge we’re choosing with Legends of Runeterra: how to create a constant, meaningful sense of progression and foster greater periods of experimentation and discovery.

01PZ051_Funsmith.png
Let's Get Technical
To extend that experience, we have to ensure you’re still discovering new cards and reasons to experiment for a while after the latest release. And therein lies the problem.

Let’s say you have the option to unlock every card. In that “total access” scenario, you have a ton of stuff to experiment with, but there’s no more discovering new cards (you’ve got the whole set already). Ironically, by having access to all the cards, the experimental time ends up being cut short—even for players who might not have that access. Once some players have unlocked everything and figured out how it fits together, the meta for everyone rapidly finds its final form and stays that way until something new comes along.

(In theory, we could counter this effect by releasing new cards nonstop. In reality, devs need to sleep at some point.)

Even if you don’t care about “the meta,” once you have everything unlocked, there’s not really… progression anymore. Sure, you’ll probably have a blast in the first few days as you try everything out. But with no new cards to discover and nothing to look forward to, the appeal fades fast. You don’t have a reason to keep coming back, and likely won’t until the next big release.

01PZ017_Used_Cask_Salesman.png
On the other end of the progression spectrum, there’s the classic card game scheme that was first made popular on paper: Make it all random. But if “total access” was a dead end for our goal, this one is even more of a brick wall.

“Random packs” as a model can be decent at ensuring you have new cards to discover, but it’s better at delivering temporary spikes of excitement than consistent progression. Assuming you can’t instantly buy as many packs as you want (which is just a more complicated version of “total access”), getting cards at random has the opposite problem. The experimental time is increased as everyone works toward the full set one pack at a time, but now you personally are stuck with a limited, arbitrary card pool.

If you don’t unlock cards that really get your imagination going, it’s better luck next time. And if you’re dropping cash for pack after pack? It’s basically pay and pray. That may be the standard (and most lucrative) model, but it’s far from ideal as a way for players to make progress.

01NX003_Arena_Bookie.png
It all comes down to this concept of agency: You need to have some ability to control your progression, or the experience is more frustrating than fun. But given unlimited agency—like being able to get everything immediately—progression falls flat. There’s nothing to discover, and the meta stagnates. The challenge is finding the balance of controlled and random elements that add up to the right amount of agency.

You can think about it in terms of two competing rates: The time it takes to build the deck you want (short = good), and the time it takes for the meta to stop evolving (long = good).

The catch is that both rates are determined by exactly the same variable—how quickly you unlock cards. And this problem is only compounded by the two ways in which players can invest: with time or money. If you can spend money to get cards and buy everything outright, that makes the time-to-deck zero (great!), but also time-to-meta much shorter (not as great). Conversely, if you only spend time to unlock cards, it makes for a much longer meta evolution, but also a much longer time to actually get the deck you want.

That’s the fundamental tension of making a card game: How do we ensure you’re constantly getting cool new cards, but always have more to look forward to? How do we fairly balance investing time and investing money? How do we extend the experimental period without punishing players who want to go further, faster?

Heimerdinger_Emote.png
Careful calculations are Heimerdinger’s speciality.
PROBLEM, MEET SOLUTION
We’ve thought about this a lot. What we’ve come up with (at least to start) is a four-part system for progression. We think it gives you good choices in how you expand your collection, strikes the right balance for both agency and investment, and (most importantly) supports the discovery and experimentation that make card games fun in the first place.  

Quests. Daily quests are another way to earn experience and give you something to do every time you log in (don’t worry if you miss a day or two—you hold up to three quests at a time). Since any experience you gain goes toward the Vault and region rewards, quests are an easy way for every player to accelerate their next reward. 
BKIT19_Client_SS_09_en_US.MOV.Still001.png
Complete daily quests.
The Vault. All the fun of cracking packs, without paying for ’em. On Vault Day, everyone gets an influx of new cards and a reason to hit the deckbuilder. It’s a weekly opportunity to share your pulls and brew something new.
Because Vault rewards are random, we can give you a bunch of cards and increase the number you get based on how much you played the previous week. Players that spend a lot of time in Runeterra will be rewarded with a leveled up Vault containing upgraded chests with more cards inside—not to mention a guaranteed champion at level 10 and above.

VaultChests1.png
Get chests and cards from the Vault.
Region rewards. This is the main way to expand your collection and get the staples you need for any deck you can imagine. You choose which region you unlock cards from, so you’re not stuck building a deck with whatever you happened to get first. You can switch regions to chase other cards whenever you like, and soon you’ll unlock a solid set of options capable of supporting decks from every part of Runeterra. Regions.png
Select a region to explore.
Shards and wildcards. Get exactly what you want, no guessing required. Both shards and wildcards can be used to directly unlock any card in the game, which means the keystone cards for any deck you might want to build—like a certain champion—are always within reach.
You’ll get some shards and wildcards just by playing, but you can also buy additional wildcards from the store, which replenishes its stock weekly. While the Vault and region rewards are geared more toward the periods when you prefer to spend time over money, the wildcard stock in store is designed for those scenarios when you would rather invest your cash than your hours.

BGPT19_CentralBacon_enUS_05m40s.mov.Still001.png
Get cards with either shards or wildcards.

Finally, there’s one more thing to be aware of: Any chest or card you get, whether from the Vault or region rewards, has the chance to upgrade into something even better.

Altogether, we’re optimistic about the potential of this system to do all the things we need it to do: accelerate how fast you get the deck you want and slow down how soon the meta settles; make getting cards feel good for all players, no matter how you choose to invest in the game; and ensure there’s always a reason to play, without restricting what you can play.

Work in Progress-ion
We spent much of LoR’s development testing the limits of what a card game can be—even trying to reinvent the formula in some ways. And you know what? That shit is hard. There’s a reason things like random packs have dominated progression (and business) models for so long.

But we don’t want to settle for the tried-and-true and just do what’s been done before. We’re stubborn enough to keep trying new things and crazy enough to think we can do it better. Like we said above—this is the challenge we’ve chosen.

But in no way is this the final state of progression in LoR. In fact, we’re still actively figuring some parts of this version out. We’re committed to carefully analyzing what’s working and what isn’t.

One of the big things we’re still debating is the fact that players are ultimately limited by time: There’s only one new quest a day, the Vault has a level cap, and wildcards in the store have a limited stock each week. It’s the tradeoff we’ve chosen in order to emphasize your agency—you have a clear way to get exactly you want, but it'll take some time to get it. Is that ultimately better? We think so, but you’re about to show us.

WildcardStock.png
Wildcards are in stock at the store.

As we monitor how it plays out, we’re keeping in mind other changes we can potentially make, like a different quantity of wildcards in the store, more or less rewards from the Vault, or how much experience you earn with each game and quest. We’ve specifically designed progression in Legends of Runeterra as a flexible system, so we can adjust as needed if something isn’t quite adding up.

PostMatch.png
Victory or defeat, each match earns your experience that goes toward rewards.

And we’re not even playing with the full deck yet. On the horizon are new champions, card expansions, and yes—more regions. As we add more cards and features to the game, progression will need to evolve with it.

For example, you can expect to see more region rewards with each new one added, plus ways to go deeper into the regions you love most, with an “endless” reward system for playing as much as you want.

Progression can be about more than rewards, too. For those of you that prefer to measure your progress in terms of skill and competition, Ranked is coming soon. Alternatively, Expeditions will challenge a different set of skills—and provide a one-of-a-kind way to experiment with new decks.

And Away We Go
Getting rid of paying for random packs was just the start. Between shards and wildcards, the Vault, and region rewards, there’s a lot going on with progression in LoR.

We don’t know that it’s going to work. But we believe it will. We’re committed to seeing where this goes and communicating with you all along the way.

Let’s see if we can build a better card game together.
Hello! I’m Ryan “RyscG” Giuliany, the design lead for progression in Legends of Runeterra.

This article is a bit of a combo piece: part followup to the original one outlining our goals for LoR’s progression systems, part response to what we heard from you about your experience during the first preview patch. We’d also like to clarify some details about how the system works now that you’ve seen it in action.

It’s important for us to be extra transparent about what you get for investing your time and/or money. We’ve seen some players trying to estimate, but we think you should have the exact numbers—no guesswork required.

Cards, Capsules, and Chests
First, let’s talk about the different rewards you’ll encounter in LoR, like in the weekly Vault or the region rewards. Here’s a breakdown:

infographic-caps-and-chests_V5.jpg
First row: Capsule, Epic Capsule, Champion Capsule, Wild Capsule

Second row: Bronze Chest, Silver Chest, Gold Chest, Platinum Chest, Diamond Chest

Keep in mind that pretty much everything has a chance to upgrade: Capsules can upgrade to Epic or Wild Capsules, chests can upgrade to the next tier, cards can upgrade to the next rarity up or turn into a wildcard. Upgrades can even chain to increase your reward more than once, though we don’t think we’ve made this as clear of a hype moment as we’d like it to be (yet).

Also, you’ll never get a fourth copy of any card in LoR, since three is the max you can use. If it’s a Common or Rare, it’ll be replaced with Shards (25 and 75, respectively). If it’s an Epic or Champion, it will be rerolled into another card of the same rarity. Once you’ve unlocked ALL Epics and Champions, extra copies will also be rerolled into Shards (300 and 1000, respectively).

Region Rewards
We’re super excited at how positively the region rewards system has been received overall. That said, there have been some questions about exactly what you get, how efficient your XP is later in each region, and just how much XP it takes to complete a region.

Here’s a full region-worth of rewards, which you get just by playing:

1 Rare Wildcard
1 Epic Wildcard
1 Champion Wildcard
2 Random Epics
1 Bronze Chest
1 Silver Chest
2 Golden Chests
2 Platinum Chests
1 Diamond Chest
2 Capsules
2 Wild Capsules
2 Epic Capsules
2 Champion Capsules
To unlock all those sweet, sweet rewards, you need to reach Level 20 in a region with a total of 52,500 XP. The first level takes 250 XP, and each subsequent level takes 250 XP more than the last, but the value of the rewards also increases (on average) with each level.
The Vault
It was AWESOME to see all the clips of players cracking huge Vaults. For those wondering just how the Vault works, here’s another one of those infographics with the details for each level.

LoR_Vault_Graphicv1.jpg
For someone who completes all their daily quests, a level 10 Vault should be well within reach, which guarantees a champion card along with other goodies.

Once upon a time, level 10 is where the Vault maxed out. However, feedback from testers who found themselves at level 10 early on in the week led us to add three more levels as stretch goals. They aren’t nearly as XP efficient as earlier levels, but it adds some extras for those who spend a lot of time playing the game.

XP and Progression
Progression in the first preview patch worked pretty similarly to how we intend it to moving forward, but there are some exceptions:

No bonus wildcards to start. These wildcards are intended for preview patch players to immediately build any deck and showcase the full range of possibilities in LoR within a week. We plan to reset progression—including a wipe of those wildcards—at some point between now and launch.
One daily quest per day. The first preview patch had a pretty widespread bug where players were able to get WAY more than the usual amount of quests per day. This bug has now been fixed.
XP for a loss will be much higher. This could potentially change, but for closed beta next year PvP losses will grant 100 XP and AI losses will grant 50 XP, up from 25 XP for either like it is in these preview patches.
More XP rewards. We’re not ready to share the details just yet, but we have some features in development that will add a bit more XP to the progression system in general.
Now that you have the numbers, let’s talk about how we landed on them.

Our Goals
One of our most important goals is that being “set complete” before the launch of the next set is achievable without spending a Coin, even if you’re not a streamer or a pro.

Exactly how much you need to play will depend on the size of the set. The first one is pretty big, but even this set hopefully won’t feel out of reach for a highly engaged player (about 7 to 10 games per day on average). If you don’t play quite that much, you’ll still have a ton of cards unlocked; for the first set, if you get your level 10 Vault each week, you’ll have at least 75% of the set before the next release.

Speaking of Coins, there’s another major goal for us: create a game where how much money you spend is NOT the deciding factor in your success as a player.

Believe it or not, we only recently added the ability to get wildcards with Coins as a result of strong feedback from early testers. When we had a version of the current system without the ability to directly purchase a card, we found that players who had less time to spend on the game felt totally left out. So we added the option to unlock cards by purchasing them, but kept it limited so players who prefer to spend time don’t get left in the dust either. Ultimately, we think the limited stock of wildcards each week strikes the right balance. If it turns out it doesn’t, we’ll keep looking for what does.

The Future
The progression system we have now is close to hitting many of the goals we set out to accomplish, but we’ve only seen it in action for one week, so we’re not celebrating victory just yet. While we’re likely going to tweak the numbers and make changes as we go, this has been a very promising start and we’re excited to see even more players get their hands on it in the next preview patch on November 14. We hope you are too.
What is LoR? I have so many questions!
We have so many answers! Check out our Announce FAQ for a bunch more info.

What is the Expeditions Preview Patch?
LoR is still in active development, but we’re gearing up for beta in early 2020. In the meantime, we’re granting limited access for a couple preview patches (this is the second of the two). The Expeditions Preview Patch runs from 8 AM PT on November 14 through 8 AM PT on November 19.

These patches are a way for us to give you an early look at the game while it’s still in development, showcase new features as we go... and squash some bugs in the process. And as a bonus for playing in these preview patches, we’re giving you a bunch of wildcards up front to help jump-start your deckbuilding experience.

This preview patch is all about the new Expeditions mode, so we’re also providing some new bonuses to get you started on your runs—one Expeditions Token and 8000 shards. Your Expeditions this week are on us!

What are Expeditions?
In the Expeditions mode, you draft a deck as you go, overcoming as many opponents as you can with an evolving set of cards. Check out this video for the full details:



(And here’s the text version for you readers out there.)

So you've found your favorite champs and learned the art of battle. But there's more than one way to play Legends of Runeterra, and different skills you can master.

Like building a deck from scratch and crafting your strategy on the fly. Can you navigate the unknown, adapting to new cards—and new foes—and still come out victorious?

In the Expeditions mode, you draft a deck as you go, overcoming as many opponents as you can with an evolving set of cards. The farther you journey, the greater the challenge; but when you're on an Expedition, it’s not over til it’s over.

Unlike other modes, in Expeditions you don’t use any of the cards from your collection. Instead, you build a deck as you go with a series of picks and trades.

Every pick offers a different, random combination of champions, units, and spells. The cards in each pick are bundled together based on deck archetypes: You might select Disruption to add stuns and recalls to your arsenal, or Scrapheap for ways to cycle through your cards in search of the perfect play. There are over 20 archetypes to pick from, but over time you’ll create a strategy that’s entirely your own.

You start by choosing a couple of champions. As you continue drafting your deck, you’ll alternate between two types of picks: synergy and wild.

Synergy picks are based on the archetypes you chose previously; the cards in each pick are random, but they’re sure to work well with what you’ve drafted so far.

On the other hand, wild picks offer archetypes that may be totally different from what you’ve selected before. You might pick up a great option for enhancing what you already have, or change course after encountering an unexpected gem. You can even combine cards from three regions of Runeterra for a deck that can only be created in an Expedition.

No matter what you choose during the initial draft, you’re guaranteed to come across more cards to support your strategy—but you’ll never know which ones you’ll find.

The draft doesn’t end when the matches begin. After each match you get another chance to upgrade your deck, including additional champion picks to fill out your roster with more heavy hitters. But it’s the trade picks where your deckbuilding skill can really shine.

Trade what you have for what you need, refining your strategy with every swap. You can smooth out your mana curve, pick up some much needed spell support, or double down with multiple tried-and-true cards—even breaking the normal limit of 3 copies. You’ll continue to evolve and improve your deck all the way to the final match.

Your trial continues until you either win seven matches or lose two consecutive ones. Even if you fumble a match, one victory is all it takes to get back in the game.

If you’re skilled enough to reach six wins, you’ll enter sudden death. The next match decides it all—will you get the coveted seventh win, or end your trial right then and there?

If your first trial doesn’t work out the way you want, don’t worry—every Expedition consists of two trials, and the better performance determines your rewards. That means you have an extra chance to make it to seven wins, or a free pass to try a completely wild strategy.

After you’ve completed both trials (or retired early), it’s time to collect your winnings. The rewards can be bountiful, and the more you win, the better they’ll be. No matter how you do, you’ll always receive at least one champion; but win enough matches, and your rewards can fully fund your next Expedition as well!

You can embark on three new Expeditions each week using Shards, Coins, or Expedition Tokens. After completing these, die-hard explorers who seek adventure purely for the experience can continue their trials in Open Play.

Whether it’s your first time drafting a deck or a glorious return to the seven-win Expedition, there are always more strategies to explore and another chance to claim victory. Pick your path, adapt your deck, and see how far you can go.

What’s different about Expeditions from other “draft” type formats?
We believe a draft mode is a great way to experiment with new strategies—some that you might never try otherwise—based on the different cards available to you each time. The downside is that it’s riskier than other formats—what happens if you get a weak selection of cards, or end a run early after an unfortunate loss at the beginning?

As with everything else in Legends of Runeterra, we’ve tried to keep what’s great and improve what’s not. Here’s what we came up with for Expeditions:

Embark once, play twice. With two trials in every Expedition, you’re essentially playing two drafts every time. You can use it as a second chance after a bust, or an opportunity to build something crazy before try-harding your way to seven wins.
Less stress losses. In a traditional draft, an early loss puts a crazy amount of pressure on you to not screw up. By changing it so a given trial ends after two consecutive losses, there’s a lot less stress and much more of a chance to continue on to victory.
Strategic support. In other draft modes, the cards you get are completely arbitrary, which means you could work toward a cool strategy early, but then get no good options for it later. In Expeditions, the cards you encounter are still random, but if you start drafting a certain strategy early, you’re guaranteed to come across at least some options for it later as well. You’ll never know which cards you’ll get, but you’ll never be totally out of luck either.
Accessible & competitive. While we’ve made changes to make our version of drafting more accessible, it’s still a challenge for those that want to compete. Sudden death means seven wins is a real accomplishment (less than 10% of players will succeed).
And of course, there’s the potential to combine three regions in your deck, compared to two in a normal game. We don’t want to give anything away, but we’re excited to see what new combinations you come up with.

To sum it up, Expeditions is a great mode for players who want to try out new regions, champions, and strategies in a real game without committing to unlocking them. It’s also a great way to challenge a different set of skills, especially your ability to adapt and evolve a deck over time. Whether you’re just starting out or simply looking for something fresh, each draft is a chance to explore Legends of Runeterra in a totally new way.

What else has changed since the last preview patch?
Expeditions is the big headline, but we’re also updating a bunch of cards and making a variety of improvements—look for the full patch notes on November 13.

Some things we think are important to call out for this patch:

As a thank you for playing this preview patch, we’re giving you a ton of bonus wildcards up front to help jump-start your deckbuilding experience (if you were in the first preview patch, you’ve already received these).
We’re also giving you an Expedition Token and 8000 Shards, so you can play all three Expeditions for free during this preview patch!
The Vault opens Sunday, 11/17 at 12:00 PM GMT.
Has my progress from the last preview patch been reset?
No! All of your progress (and those bonus wildcards) has been retained.

There will be at least one reset prior to launch in 2020. When we do reset, you’ll keep any Coins you’ve purchased and get back any you’ve spent during the preview patches or closed beta.

Do I keep my access from the last preview patch?
Yes! If you get access during the preview patches or later on in closed beta, you’ll retain it all the way through launch.

How can I get access if I don’t have it already?
You can pre-register right now for a chance to play on PC during this preview patch and the closed beta in early 2020. The Expeditions Preview Patch will be open from November 14 (8 AM PT) to November 19 (8 AM PT).

You can also watch LoR live on Twitch for a chance to get instant access:

Link your Riot (or existing LoL) account to your Twitch account. You MUST do this in order to get a chance at access.
Watch LoR on any Twitch Channel.
If you get access, you’ll be notified via the Twitch notifications panel and the email associated with your linked Riot account.
When will LoR release?
As soon as we’ve landed on an exact date for launch, we’ll let you know, but you can pre-register right now on both PC and mobile.

Pre-registering on PC gives you a chance to play in the closed beta on PC in early 2020, as well as during this preview patch right now!
Legends of what now?
Set in the world of League of Legends, Legends of Runeterra is the strategy card game where skill, creativity, and cleverness determine your success.

If you’re new here, check out our Announce FAQ for a bunch more info, or just watch this:


Wait, does that title say OPEN beta? When can I play?
Yup, you read it right. We learned a ton during last year’s limited-access preview patches, especially that a lot more of you wanted to play than we were able to let in. So, we took a look at our timeline, hit the gas, and focused on getting LoR ready for open access. Here’s the new plan:

At 11 AM PT on January 23, LoR service will be back online. Anyone who played during the preview patches OR has pre-registered on PC by 11:59 PM PT on January 19 will gain access on 1/23. Pre-registered folks who did not play in the preview patches should look for an invite email—some of these may take a few hours to roll out, so don’t stress if you don’t have access right at 11 AM.

Note that only those who’ve pre-registered on PC (not mobile) will get access on 1/23. If you’ve only pre-registered on mobile, you’ll need to also do so on PC at https://playruneterra.com in order to get access on 1/23.

The next day, at 11 AM PT on January 24, open beta officially begins and LoR will go completely open access—anyone will be able to immediately create an account, download, and play for free.

As a bonus for being part of the inaugural Beta Season, anyone who plays during open beta will receive an exclusive Moonstruck Poro Guardian once Legends of Runeterra fully launches. To redeem this variant for the Poro Guardian, you’ll just need to login once during beta (though you won’t get the variant until LoR launches) or within seven days after LoR launches. Don’t worry, your poro pal will wait for you.


Will there be any more account resets?
Nope! We’ve reset accounts that played during the preview patches, but there will be no further account resets—anything you earn once open beta starts is yours to keep.

If you purchased coins during the preview patch, check out the question below for some more important context. 


What’s changed since the last preview patch?
Glad you asked. We’ve added a new Ranked mode, three new guardians and six new boards to personalize your gameplay, and a social panel and friend challenge feature. You’ll be able to friend anyone on all three current LoR shards (Americas, Asia, and Europe), though challenges are within-shard only. We’re also updating 20+ cards—including a major update to Anivia—and making a bunch of general improvements. You can check out the full patch notes right here on https://playruneterra.com at 11 AM PT on January 22.

For a less wordy, more visual update of what’s arriving with open beta (including some adorable guardian animations), check out this video preview: 


We’ve also made a variety of changes to the overall economy, impacting everything from the relative cost of coins to how much experience you’ll receive from wins. These changes deserve an article of their own—keep an eye out for it the same day as the patch notes. 

Lastly, an early note for anyone who spent money during the preview patches: as part of the overall account reset, we’ve reset any content you purchased with coins and returned that value back to your coin balance. Your exact number of coins has changed as part of the economy changes mentioned above, but you’ll have at least as much purchasing power as you did before (i.e. prices have changed too).


How does Ranked work?
Our goal from the start was to create a card game with enough strategic depth and interaction to support skilled competition. Now it’s time to see where you stand among the best players in Runeterra: Ranked will be live in the beta!

You'll see some similarities to League, like earning LP to advance through divisions and climbing from Iron all the way to Master. There are no promotion series; once you hit 100 LP, you’ll automatically move to the next division (or if you’re in division I, the next tier’s division IV).

But we’ve also made some changes based on Legends of Runeterra’s 1-on-1 Ranked experience. For example: one problem we’ve seen in card games is that you can feel like you’re locked into playing a proven meta deck if you want to climb, versus trying different strategies to get to the top.

We want you to be able to test different competitive decks without sacrificing progress. So when you reach a tier in Legends of Runeterra, you’ll hold that rank for the rest of the season—you’ve earned it.

Your rise through the ranks starts with the Beta Season, which will last until launch. At the end of the season, you’ll earn an icon reward based on your highest tier reached to commemorate your first climb in Ranked LoR.

Good luck (not that you need it)!


When will LoR officially launch?
Later this year. When we know more, you’ll know more!


When will LoR release on mobile?
Mobile is coming when we officially launch later this year, at which point LoR will be fully playable cross-platform. 


What should I expect from open beta versus full launch?
It’s not a perfect science, but open beta is essentially an experimental period where we’re still tuning the overall game experience. You may see sizable adjustments to cards, systems, and the economy, but we’ll always communicate these as they happen. We still need to complete a few major features before we’ll consider LoR ready to launch—specifically, mobile and new card content.


Do I need the League of Legends client or a LoL account to play LoR?
No to both—Legends of Runeterra is a standalone download. If you have an existing LoL account, you can use it to pre-register or play, but those without one can easily make a new Riot account while pre-registering or playing for the first time.


I’m confused about the recent updates to Riot account usernames.
You’re not the only one. Check out the support article for a detailed breakdown.


What languages and regions does LoR support?
LoR currently supports English, Korean, Japanese, French, Italian, German, and Spanish (Spain).

By launch, we also plan to support Turkish, Russian, Spanish (Latin America), and Portuguese (Brazil). We’re also working on Polish, but currently do not expect to have it ready for launch. We’ll provide further info on languages and timing as it becomes available throughout the year.

Please note that Southeast Asia is unfortunately not included in the PC open beta. For more information, head to the LoR Southeast Asia Facebook page.
LoR is headed to open beta with a whole bundle of updates and changes. In this article, we’d like to elaborate on some key changes to the underlying economy, but you can also check out the full patch notes for info on card updates, new features, and so on.

Since last year’s preview patches, we’ve reset all account progression (for the last time!) and made a variety of wide-ranging changes to LoR’s overall economy, impacting everything from the relative cost of coins to how much experience you’ll receive from wins. We outlined our goals for progression when we announced LoR last year, then elaborated on them when we made some updates for the second preview patch. The specific design of the economy is based on these goals, so we’d like to recap before getting into all the updates.

With LoR’s progression systems, we aim to:

Create a game where how much money you spend is NOT the deciding factor in your success as a player.
Give players meaningful choices in how to expand their collections, and support the discovery and experimentation that make card games fun in the first place.
Ensure being “set complete” before the launch of the next set is achievable without spending a Coin, even if you’re not a streamer or a pro.
Alright, let’s dive in.

Final account reset
All account progression and content acquired during the preview patches has been reset. There will be no further account resets—anything you earn once open beta starts is yours to keep!

If you purchased content using Coins during the preview patches, we’ve reset any content you purchased returned that value back to your Coin balance. Your exact number of Coins has changed (more info in the next section), but we’ve made sure you’ll have at least as much purchasing power as you did before (i.e., prices have changed too).

Coin pricing
As those of you who played during the preview patches may have noticed, our store initially used League of Legends’ RP price points as placeholders. That worked fine for a preview, but LoR is headed to mobile once we launch later this year, which means we need to establish our own price structure that aligns with standards on the Play Store and the App Store.

In designing LoR’s price structure, we also reviewed regional pricing comparisons (particularly between countries on the same shard), which means the degree of these changes varies quite a bit depending on your local currency—some will see relatively similar prices (e.g., US dollar, Euro), while others will see relatively higher prices (e.g., Turkish lira, Brazilian real) or relatively lower (e.g., Japanese yen).

Overall, you’ll now receive fewer coins when purchasing them, but content prices have also gone down. Here’s an example (in USD):

Previous values
$10 = 1380 Coins
Champion Wildcard = 400 Coins
New values
$10 = 1000 Coins
Champion Wildcard = 300 Coins
Effective change
Purchasing Champion Wildcards with Coins now requires ~3.5% more when using USD (varying slightly depending on the number of Coins purchased).
LoR currently operates with ~25 currencies, and the exact price changes vary further depending on content (e.g., Common Wildcards are relatively cheaper, Epics relatively more expensive). Rather than try to exhaustively document all the different percentages, we encourage you to head to the store once the open beta starts and check out the various new price points for Coins and content in your local currency. Volume discounts (bonus Coins for larger purchases) have also changed (again, varies by currency), so make sure to check those out as well.

Finally, it’s important to note that price point standards on the Play Store and App Store are periodically updated by Google and Apple, so we expect to have to review and adjust our own structure over time. Whenever that’s necessary, we’ll share details as soon as we have them.

Shard values
The Coin pricing overhaul required that we also adjust Shard values and rewards to preserve the 10:1 ratio between Shard and Coin costs for content. While we were at it, we also made some minor tweaks to relative Shard values (e.g. Rare & Epic 4th copies are worth a bit more, Common 4th copies a bit less).

Content pricing (Shards & Coins)
We’ve adjusted content prices in both Shards & Coins to align with the above changes, though again there’s some minor variation (e.g. Common Wildcards are relatively cheaper, Epic Wildcards relatively more expensive).

Rewards (chests, expeditions, and the vault)
Vault, Expedition, Prologue, and general chest rewards have all been updated. Much of this is tied to the above changes, but we’re also aiming to make Expeditions more accessible for everyone by adding an Expedition Token to level 10 Vaults and making Shards a greater proportion of the rewards you get from your Expeditions. Here are the highlights:

Vault
Expedition Token added to level 10+ Vaults.
Random champion card removed from level 10+ Vaults.
Expedition rewards
Now grant greater value in Shards at all levels.
Now provide less value in chests and capsules at all levels.
Prologue rewards
Expedition Token added to the 10th Prologue level.
Chests
Higher level chests now contain fewer Shards (keep in mind individual Shards are now worth more, so the difference is smaller than it appears at first glance).
With these changes, players should be able to more consistently finish their Expeditions trials and reach open play, and get a greater chunk of their Expeditions rewards in raw Shards they can put towards specific cards or more trials.

XP rewards
Finally, we're shifting the spread of XP across your games to help you make progress without the grind. The most noticeable change is bonus XP for your first few wins of the day. By frontloading the biggest chunk of your daily XP, we hope you'll play as many games as you want, not as many games as you have to. We've also buffed the XP you get from losses, because even LoR masters can't win all the time.

This shift gives you more XP up front and over both wins and losses by taking it from later games, which means eventually your XP gains will tail off as you reach many hours of LoR in a given day. Check out the exact numbers below:

Constructed XP

First-wins bonus XP
400 bonus XP for your first PVP win each day, 200 for the 2nd, and 100 for the 3rd.
Base PVP win XP now 200 (from 250).
More XP from PVP losses
Base PVP loss XP now 100 (from 25).
Diminishing XP rewards over many hours
PVP Wins (per day)
Wins 11-15 (in one day) reward 150 XP.
Wins 16-20 reward 100 XP.
Wins 21-30 reward 50 XP.
Wins 31+ reward 0 XP. Get some sleep and come back tomorrow you maniac.
PVP Losses
Losses 5-10 (in one day) reward 50 XP.
Losses 11+ (in one day) reward 0 XP.
Vs AI Wins (per day)
Wins 5-10 reward 75 XP.
Wins 11-20 reward 50 XP.
Wins 21+ reward 0 XP.
Vs AI Losses
Base XP reward is 50 XP.
Losses 5-10 reward 25 XP.
Losses 11+ reward 0 XP.
Comparison to old values (PVP)
Reduced win XP doesn’t set in until 11 wins in a day, which is on average about 20 games or 3 hours and 20 minutes of daily play.
Overall win XP is higher until 14 wins in one day (where it evens out), then lower.
Losses grant more XP until 21+ (where they now grant 0)
Generally, we don’t expect players to reach comparatively lower XP until they play for about 7-9 hours straight in one day.
Expeditions XP

Base Expeditions wins = 100 XP, Base Expeditions losses = 50 XP (unchanged but included for reference).
Per-game XP for Expeditions shares the same PVP tracks for Constructed play outlined above, but will diminish to 0 more quickly due to lower base values.
Expeditions grant a bonus burst of XP (0-2000 XP depending on wins) upon completing a trial (unchanged but included for reference). This end-of-run burst XP is not subject to diminishing XP rewards, and will always be granted at full value.
It’s been a little over a month since Legends of Runeterra entered Open Beta, and we wanted to share thoughts on the state of our game: reflect on what we’ve seen, recap some feedback we’ve heard, and finally, share a bit about our priorities this year.

long-divider.png
Open Beta
We released LoR into Open Beta early because we believed that was the best thing we could do for players. We launched with the intent to see what you discovered, found delightful, and found painful, and couldn’t wait to start the process of improving the game with the community. While we’ve learned a lot along the way, the overall response has been extremely positive, and we’re super glad we kicked off the journey with you this January!

Many of the thoughts we have about Legends of Runeterra are informed by more than the numbers—they come directly from players in communities across forums, social media, streams, and even DMs. It’s impossible to walk the floor at Riot without seeing a LoR stream on a monitor. We appreciate the early support and hope you see this article and continuous improvements to the game as a signal that we’re listening and committed to improving the game with you.

Now, prepare for a deep dive—let’s get into it!

long-divider.png
The Game
Our goal is to bring deep, interactive strategy to the genre through a combination of back-and-forth gameplay, indirect attacking, “skillshot” spells that provide reaction windows, and exciting champions that level up through smart play. All this, optimized for PC and mobile.

We’ve heard tons of positive feedback in this area, but also see some opportunities to do better.

The good:

Champions: Champion level-ups are slick and champs often feel like their League counterpart, even down to obnoxiously-effective ones like Teemo and Ezreal. With the update to displaying champions at match start and whenever their level-up makes progress, champions are even more present and active throughout games.
Interactive Strategy: The back and forth gameplay combined with fast and slow spells allow for lots of strategy and outplay moments; we’ll probably never get tired of screenshots like this:
Stack_Alt.jpg

The stuff we’re improving:

Clarity: So far, we’ve improved clarity via card text and other updates, like the action log now including discarded cards. Given the huge combinatorial nature of the game, we suspect we’ll never be “done” here, and intend to continue improving clarity over time.
In addition to card clarity, UI and Deckbuilder improvements are also top of mind. We’ve received a ton of feedback on the client, deckbuilder and collection management in particular, and we hear you about how annoying certain parts can be. We’ve already made some improvements (like updating the way deckbuilder shows card counts), and you can look forward to similar improvements for other parts of the general out-of-game experience over the course of the year, such as currency management and crafting cards and decks.
The Timer: Getting timed-out round over round or due to a barrage of burst spells sucks. You can look forward to timer adjustments for burst spells in one of the next two patches.
FPS Lock: Some players were disappointed when they discovered our FPS options. This was a feature we misjudged the value of, and a great example of the type of feedback we were excited to get by jumping into Open Beta earlier. We added several FPS options in 0.9.0, so now players everywhere can warm themselves with the heat of their rigs.
Animation speed and input blocking: Finally, In 0.9.1, we began reducing both animation time and input block-time for common actions like playing units, drawing, and start of round. Our priority is to make a game that is as much fun to interact with as it is to look at. Once this baseline is good, we’ll continue on to the more egregious single-card examples, while updating our internal guidelines to ensure these lessons get applied to new content too—no more multi-second chained axes from Draven.
long-divider.png
The Meta
We think that great card games offer endlessly interesting and interactive puzzles—chief among them a healthy metagame waiting to be cracked. From the beginning, we believed bringing the Riot “live service” mentality to bear would help keep LoR fresh and ever-evolving. Our strategies to accomplish this include:

No bad cards, so even a modest initial card pool could yield lots of interesting decks.
Monthly card updates that empower the developers to keep the meta healthy (and awesome to play) between sets.
New cards and content to exponentially expand the possibilities of our mix-and-match deckbuilding.
And finally, slow and steady progression, so the meta isn’t solved day one.
How We’re Doing

Overall, we’ve been blown away by the variety of decks we’ve seen at all levels of play. It’s felt like there was a new “OP deck” meme each week: Dawnspeakers, Elusives, Fearsome... Elnuks?

But we also see room to improve. We focus on a few key indicators to inform our overall understanding and where we should look to make changes:

Card play rate, especially Champions: As RubinZoo mentioned in the Patch 0.9.0 notes, our aspiration is that every card has a role and every champion’s dream is realizable for every player. It’s a never-ending task in general, but simply put, some of our champions aren’t hitting the bar here currently.
Card win rate: As opposed to our champion play rate metrics, for card win rate we look specifically at Platinum and above ranked matches. We do look at all levels of ranked play, but our hard metrics for “must-change” cards are indicated by higher ranked matches. Here, we have thresholds for how high of a win rate any given card can have before warranting a change. We specifically look at a card’s ideal region combination for these metrics, as opposed to overall win rate (for instance, Shen has a much higher win rate in a Demacia/Ionia deck than in other region combinations).
Deck win rate: Deck win rate is folded into our card win rate metrics. While we’re looking at how cards perform in their best region combinations, we get to see how card clusters, archetypes, or specific decks are performing. This helps us isolate problems with certain matchups and determine what changes should be made (if any).
These metrics combine to provide other ways to look at health as well, such as region prevalence. With these metrics in mind, here are some key areas we’re looking to improve:

Healthy patterns: While the core gameplay provides a ton of opportunities for interaction, players have been able to push the boundaries of minimal interactivity a lot with certain decks. We’ve mentioned Fearsome and Elusive decks before, but we’re keeping an eye on things like Ezreal Frostbite decks as well. Here we need to walk a fine line between satisfaction, interaction, and games actually ending. Certain regions will be better or worse at different aspects of interaction, but we want players to have tools available to combat certain strategies if need be. We’ll continue looking at ways to provide those tools in addition to keeping low interaction with decks in check.
RNG: We’ve always held the opinion that games should feel decided by players and not cards. RNG has a place, but it shouldn’t take the lead, and good RNG design creates novel circumstances that players can adapt to. We’re always watching how these designs are received (looking at you, Elnuks), and will make tweaks where needed to bring them in line.
Shadow Isles: Shadow Isles has been performing as the best region holistically by a decent margin. This is partially due to Shadow Isles having a ton of outright power, but also because it’s incredibly strong at doing what it’s good at compared to other regions and their respective strengths. And on the flipside, Shadow Isles’ intended weaknesses—such as frail units and the inability to protect its units—are too easily mitigated by cards like Mark of the Isles and Frenzied Skitterer. While we’re making adjustments over time to address these issues, the biggest change is from a development standpoint: we’re going to focus on ensuring regions have clear, distinct weaknesses (and therefore challenges for you to build around) earlier in the design process.
Champion Updates: Some of our Champions such as Vlad, Shen and Kalista have low play\rates that we want to improve. Some of the lowest playrate champions have very narrow archetypes (Vladimir, Shen). For these champions, we look to make their narrow decks a bit more meta or make tweaks to their supporting cast of followers before we outright change the champion itself. Others, like Kalista, not only don’t have a clear home but struggle by simply not being effective or having an unrealizable gameplay dream. For this type of problem, we generally look more at updating the champion itself. And then there are what we call “consumptive” champions, whose level-up dreams involve… destroying your opponents’ dreams (looking at you, Yasuo and Ezreal). While we aren’t planning to rework either of those champs in the near future, we’re being careful about how we design champs like that going forward, and are keeping a close eye on existing champs that fall into this category.
long-divider.png
The Economy and Progression
From the inception of LoR, we knew we wanted a progression system that proved to players why card games could be awesome: imaginative new decks, endless tinkering, and fierce competition. We anticipated having to get creative to accomplish this, even if that meant throwing away the traditional pack model.

And for the most part, we feel very good about the bets we’ve made so far. We’ve seen a bunch of anecdotal evidence, but we don’t want to rely on just what we see on various forums (or god forbid, social media comments), so we’ve also been conducting surveys to get a more data-driven indication of how we’re doing. So far, 75% of Open Beta players are saying they’re satisfied with the progression system, while 18% are dissatisfied (7% neutral). That’s pretty solid, but we think there are some key areas where LoR can do better:

Collection agency: While collections are building up at a great rate on average, that’s not the only way we measure success. We think a critical measure is how well players can achieve their shorter term goals, like completing a particular deck. Looking at that data again, we see about 1/3 players saying the decks they want to play feel unattainable, likely from getting left behind due to poor RNG in their Vaults (particularly for Champions). So, we’re planning to update reward distributions to tilt toward more agency and less randomness before launch.

Experimentation: We also see that some players are uneasy experimenting because wildcards feel too precious and it’s too unpredictable when you’ll get more. Instead of experimenting, we’re seeing stockpiling, which is definitely the less fun thing to do (and sort of defeats some of the “progression” you would otherwise have if you were using them). Before launch, we’re planning updates to our progression system to increase predictability and encourage using wildcards, so players are more excited to experiment. There’s no way to capture the exact same experience as Open Beta and the first set of cards, but we’re thinking hard about how to make the next set (and every future set) an equally exciting experience.

Welcome to All Players: At the end of the day, we want LoR to be a welcoming game for anyone interested in its strategic core gameplay. The results we’ve seen so far in Open Beta have shown us we can do better to accommodate all the kinds of players who want to engage with LoR: those who can’t play much outside weekends, those who want to grind all night, new players just joining the community, and would-be players who might have passed on LoR initially because of the higher time barrier to entry. We want everyone to feel like they have multiple options for picking up the cards and decks they want, and we think we can make the game more accessible to a broader swath of CCG fans.

long-divider.png
Personalization
Finally, personalization. We’ve been delighted by the response of the initial batch of guardians and boards (T-Hex FTW), but we’re just getting started. We’re investigating ways to add more features to guardians and boards, but we also can’t wait to expand into new cosmetic lines as well, such as card backs, emotes, and card styles—expect to hear more details about these after launch.

long-divider.png
On the Horizon
Besides these updates, in the short term the team is focused on mobile, global launch, and the next set of cards. We think it's critical for us to hit the commitments we’ve already made and establish our baseline of new content and updates.

But what’s next after that?

We’ve already talked about some of our plans to increase player expression in the form of new cosmetic lines, boards, and pets. But there’s something else we haven’t mentioned yet: modes and formats.

One thing that has always kept us coming back to card games is the infinite number of ways they can be played; many of our favorite formats were even made by the community, in lieu of the original designers pursuing them. We believe that it’s when tons of cards meet an equally wide variety of modes that our game will truly shine, and we’re excited to start down that path this year. You can look forward to new ways to play with your collection, compete, and be recognized.

Thanks for reading this long article on the state of the Open Beta. As we head towards launch, we’ll be back with more info about ongoing work, a date for the official launch of LoR (both PC and mobile!)—and maybe even sneak peeks at the next set of cards.
After two preview patches, six weeks of open beta, and a whole lot of data and feedback from all of you awesome open beta players, we’re making a big update to progression and the in-game economy of Legends of Runeterra. There’s a lot to cover, so let’s get right to the point and then dive into the rationale behind it all afterwards.

long-divider.png
HERE’S THE DEAL
As design director Andrew “Umbrage” Yip talked about in his State of the Beta article, we’re seeing lots of positive results overall from the progression system. However, some of the methods we chose to achieve certain goals—like ensuring the meta continues to evolve and supporting the different ways players invest their time & money—aren’t doing the job as well as we’d like. So we’re adding more agency to your progression: a Champion Wildcard each week from a Vault that can now level up infinitely, no daily XP cap, and unlimited direct purchase of any card, among other things.

Our goal is to give you the ability to get what you want, how you want, in a game where players can compete regardless of how much they spend. We think this set of changes will maximize your ability to experiment with different cards, ensure a faster and more reliable “time-to-deck”, and will keep things accessible for every LoR player.

Effective starting Patch 0.9.3, you’ll be able to:

Earn unlimited (and improved) Vault rewards
Level 2+ includes an Expedition Token (previously awarded at level 10).
Level 5+ includes a random Champion card (you can Braum Wave goodbye to bad luck Vaults with no Champions)
Level 10+ includes a Champion Wildcard (replaces level 5 random Champion card).
Beyond Level 13, unlock additional, unlimited capsules, each of which contains at least 3 Rares and 2 Commons, with a chance to upgrade to an Epic or Champion Capsule
Earn unlimited XP
PVP wins in Normal / Ranked and Expeditions net you at least 200 and 100 base XP (respectively), every time. Play as much as you want!
AI wins will always provide at least 50 XP going forward
Purchase unlimited wildcards
No more weekly stock in the store
Alternatively, you can directly purchase cards in the Collection tab using Coins (cost is identical to the equivalent wildcard)
Easily and consistently play Expeditions
Entry is 2000 Shards or 200 Coins. Combined with the Token in level 2 Vaults, those who love the mode will be able to play Expeditions more easily and less expensively. (Note that rewards have been reduced to compensate, and the guaranteed random champion has been moved to the Vault. Additionally, you’ll be reimbursed some of the value lost from existing Tokens in your inventory, and Expeditions started before the change goes live will receive the previous set of rewards.)

Additionally, along with the first new set of cards—and new region—later this year, we’ll deliver the following feature:

XP Boost levels on Region Roads. These levels will increase any XP you gain toward unlocking them, accelerating your progress through the earlier part of the road and allowing new + returning players to catch up quickly.
The above changes (excluding the XP Boost levels) will be live on March 31 with Patch 0.9.3. We’re giving you early notice because we take changes to progression and the economy seriously, and know that you do too. Like our previous progression articles, we also want to provide as much transparency as possible and take the opportunity to talk about our broader goals, so read on for all the details that led to this update.

(2)-01FR037_Avarosan-Outriders.jpg long-divider.png
WHERE WE STARTED...
When we set out to build a better card game, we focused on a particular challenge: How to create a meaningful sense of progression while fostering greater periods of experimentation and discovery. Given this ambition, we knew going into the preview patches (before Open Beta even started) that we had more work to do to get to the final state of progression in LoR.

In our first article about progression, we said that: One of the big things we’re still debating is the fact that players are ultimately limited by time: There’s only one new quest a day, the Vault has a level cap, and wildcards in the store have a limited stock each week. It’s the tradeoff we’ve chosen in order to emphasize your agency—you have a clear way to get exactly what you want, but it'll take some time to get it. Is that ultimately better? We think so, but you’re about to show us.

And show us you did.

long-divider.png
...WHERE WE ENDED UP
While many players were very satisfied with the amount of agency they had at the outset, others were struggling with the limits. One of the most obvious examples was the randomness of the Vault, specifically when it came to Champion cards. Given how critical champs are to the “time-to-deck”—an important way in which we measure progression in LoR—that was a big deal. The randomness was especially punishing for players who were relying on the Vault (versus the store) to get the champs they needed.

And while parts of the progression system—like limited stock in the store and a max level on the Vault—did seem to help the meta evolve more slowly, that benefit was overshadowed by notable downsides, like not being able to fully experiment with a majority of the cards. For some players, this made the meta stale in its own way, and for other players—those that have the most fun when being innovative and experimental—it was a real limitation that made LoR harder to enjoy playing altogether. While we love the idea of a meta that keeps evolving, we aren’t willing to keep constraining players in order to force a certain pace.

(3)-01SI048_Cursed-Keeper.jpg
We also saw a less-than-awesome optimization happening: stockpiling wildcards (and to a lesser extent, shards). We see this as a problem for two reasons: First, it indicates to us that players feel it’s ultimately more valuable to hold onto wildcards instead of using them to regularly acquire and try out new cards, which directly contradicts our goals of progression, experimentation, and discovery. Second, stockpiling wildcards effectively eliminates the possibility of a “slow-evolution meta” for the next set, as players can use all those wildcards to unlock the majority of new cards instantly (an issue which would likely repeat going forward). Regardless of any other changes, we’d need to eventually do something to improve this, if only because new players would be hopelessly behind the well-resourced veteran players.

With all these problems clearly in view, we had essentially two options: keep the current course and accept that some players would have significant advantages over others (along with very different progression experiences), or make some big changes.

long-divider.png
PROGRESSION 2.0
Our goal hasn’t changed—we still want to create a game with satisfying progression while fostering greater periods of experimentation and discovery—but we also don’t want the second half of that goal to come at the expense of the first.

Trying to maintain a meta that evolves slowly would lead to some things that just straight up feel bad. For example, one solution would be to limit not just how many wildcards you can purchase each week, but how many you can actually use each week. Another would be to establish set-based wildcards, so that none of the current wildcards would be applicable toward the next set’s cards.

It would sure slow things down, but there’s no way we’re doing any of that crap. (And even if we did, it wouldn’t necessarily lead to the kind of evolving meta we saw in Open Beta. There’s a high chance the community would default to playing existing top-tier decks rather than experiment with the latest cards in less-powerful decks, choosing to wait until a complete, competitive version of a new deck is possible before investing in playing it.)

(4)-01PZ014T1_Illegal-Contraption.jpg
Which brings us to big change #1: we’re making wildcards, or essentially direct purchase of cards, unlimited. Once we decided against the feels-bad methods necessary to make an Open Beta-style meta experience happen again, this became a simple way to improve three key things simultaneously: ensure new players weren’t forever behind those who stocked up earlier, enable players who wanted access to the full set of cards for experimentation, and eliminate the implicit pressure to make purchases because of the limited weekly stock.

That’s probably the bigger headline, but it isn’t the one we started with. Another goal we’ve been committed to since the beginning of LoR is to make a game where how much money you spend is NOT the deciding factor in your success as a player. So before we could get to the question of wildcards, we had to first figure out how to give players who invest time, rather than money, more agency. Turns out, it was a similarly simple solution: make XP gains and the Vault unlimited as well, and ensure players had more access to (and control over) Champion cards. That manifests as a Vault with a random Champion at level 5 or a Champion Wildcard at level 10, and continuous leveling for as many bonus capsules as you can get.

Together, these changes do a lot to increase agency across the board. But while they might be great for players that heavily invest with either time or money, they don’t do as much for another kind of player: those who don’t (or simply can’t) invest that way.

(5)-01NX003_Arena-Bookie.jpg
We never want anyone to feel like LoR is only playable if you’re grinding out games or dropping a bunch of cash. We’re also personally familiar with the fear of missing out and falling behind when you dip out of a game for a little while. So along with the now-consistent Champions from level 5 Vaults (which is designed to be virtually guaranteed just by completing your daily quests), we’re adding XP Boost levels that will accelerate anyone who’s far behind into a reasonable range.

Over time, additional XP Boost levels will be added based on how long and how quickly active players have been progressing to ensure there isn’t a huge disparity in card collections. If a significant part of the community ends up rocketing way ahead of the pack, the rest of the community can draft off them to catch up. We want coming back after a break to be easy and appealing, and ensure that it’s always a good time to start playing LoR.

That rounds out the major changes you can expect to see soon. Whatever struggle you were having with your progression, this update aims to fix it. You wanted less barriers? Unlimited XP gains, Vault levels, and direct purchases are yours. Needed more accessibility? Better rewards from the Vault, more Expeditions, and XP Boost levels are here. Were you praying every week for a Champion? You got ’em, no problem. The meta may evolve more quickly now, but your progression will keep up, and you’ll have more agency than ever before.

(6)-01DE043_War-Chefs.jpg long-divider.png
AND AWAY WE GO (AGAIN)
We’ll be watching carefully over the next few weeks to see how you all respond to these changes, and how it impacts the game overall. We’re determined to develop the best progression system we can for LoR while finding other ways to keep the meta fresh in an unlimited world.

We’ve given this update a lot of thought, and are striving to make it the last major change to LoR’s core progression and economy. As always, we’ll keep communicating along the way.

Thank you to everyone playing in the Open Beta for helping us see what still needed fixing. With launch not too far away, we’re more excited than ever for what you’ll help us create next.

Let’s keep building a better card game together.
SETTING SAIL TO BILGEWATER
Yes Hello Hi! I’m Alexzandros “Careless Whisper” Lee, the design lead for the Rising Tides expansion. Rising Tides adds a new region—Bilgewater—and a bunch of new keywords and mechanics.

In Bilgewater, fortune favors the bold and life always comes with a little risk. We’re excited to bring that flavor to a fresh design space and introduce new kinds of cards to LoR—like this one:

02BW045.png
Make It Rain is a card that can play out a few different ways, which is what we think makes it exciting and fun. But we’re also aware that there’s a word in the rules text fraught with a lot of potential hazards: random. So before we cover Make It Rain (and a few other fun cards from the Rising Tides set), let’s dive in and talk about how we think about randomness in Legends of Runeterra. Beware—here be jargons.

long-divider.png
RANDOM, THE DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD
Random is a spicy word in the card game genre. Some players aren’t fans of the implied inconsistency and reliance on “luck.” Others welcome the excitement and unpredictability it brings. On the LoR team, we believe there is a way to include random elements that is fun for all types of players, and healthy for the game overall. But to show you why we think that, first we need to define two other ideas: variance and uncertainty.

We use variance to mean the range of results you might get from an action, while we refer to uncertainty as the lack of knowledge of which results you may get. Both of these together create what we colloquially call “randomness.” They are individual levers designers can use to tune a random game element, but it’s tricky to tweak one aspect without affecting the other, as high variance can cause a lot of uncertainty.

There are some elements of variance and uncertainty that exist inherently in the rules of LoR, and some that are common to the whole card game genre. For example:

Your deck is shuffled, so what you draw is uncertain.
Who you play against and the deck they’re playing with has high variance.
The uncertainty of what you’re going to draw is important because it helps create game-to-game variety and exciting moments each round start; the games when you get the perfect hand are much different than the games when you only get half of your combo. It pushes you to adapt and seek out other avenues to tip the game in your favor.

Designers can use these two elements as levers to create more exciting, edge-of-your-seat experiences, but we have to be careful: randomness is a double-edged sword.

01DE011_Laurent_Protege.jpg
Without enough, LoR would feel deterministic and flat—plays would have strictly correct choices, because you know the entire outcome beforehand. Too much randomness, on the other hand, and you can feel like you have no control over your own game—the choices you make ultimately don’t matter, because who wins is left up to chance.

At the same time, variance and uncertainty are also often the unsung heroes that help make every game feel exciting and different, no matter how many games you’ve played before. They’re the catalysts for unique strategies and exciting top-decks that let you blow out your opponent when you draw the right card, at the right time.

As with so many things, it all comes down to striking a balance. And when done right, randomness doesn’t replace skill, but actively creates new ways to showcase it.

01DE045T1_Fiora2.png
THE ART OF ADAPTABILITY
One of the principles of LoR design is Skillful Plays Matter. Skill, in this context, is a combination of three pillars:

Planning
The ability to come up with a plan beforehand (or figure out one on the fly) in order to win a game. It can be anything from “yeti deck, smash!” to “against this opponent, I need to do X, Y, and Z to win.”

Interpretation
The ability to read a situation and make the correct play, at the correct time. These are the big brain moments: saving that Deny for the right spell, or attacking into an opponent with full mana because you already know they don’t have a response.

Adaptability
The ability to adjust to new situations, especially ones where some information is unknown. Situations like “my opponent is playing a deck I’ve never seen before,” and “I only have half my combo, how do I survive until I get the rest?”

The adaptability pillar is where randomness comes in: to deal with variance and uncertainty, you’ll need to adapt and improvise.

Earlier I mentioned that LoR already has some elements of randomness built into the game rules. They’re examples of what we would call “healthy” randomness, where you can change your tactics based on the outcome and still have a shot at success—not getting a one-drop in your aggro deck’s opening hand isn’t awesome, but it’s not an instant loss, either. This is compared to something like winning the game on a coin flip, which would be “unhealthy” randomness—there’s nothing you can do to change the outcome of what is essentially pure luck, and the entire game is riding on it, not just your first attack. We enjoy dramatic game ends (and we’re sure many of you do too); we just prefer they come from a top-deck that could be anticipated versus completely unexpected.

Even for the person favored by a random outcome, unhealthy randomness steals the skillful play from you with a feeling of “I got lucky.” It can also make it difficult for you to improve as a player if there’s not much you could have done differently.

01PZ018_Academy_Prodigy.png
So one of the main ways we decide whether a random element is a healthy one for LoR is how much agency a player has to adapt to it: What information can you leverage and what do you control that can affect the variance and uncertainty?

Let’s revisit the fundamental randomness of card games:

Your deck is shuffled, so what you draw is uncertain. But when you build your deck, you can control some of the variance.
Who you play against and the deck they’re playing with has high variance, but knowing how much mana they have left and what cards they can use can reduce your uncertainty.
If there isn’t some way for a player to adapt to variance or uncertainty, then we’re less excited about putting it in the game, because it’s less exciting for you as a player.

Another way we look at whether something random is healthy involves its impact. Generally the more impact something has, the bigger outcome or effect it has on the game, and the more work we’re going to ask of a player to get the result they want. Cards like Warmother’s Call are incredible when you can pull ’em off, but it shouldn’t be too easy or too frequent.

01NX020_Draven.png
“But what about X? That card breaks these guidelines!”

It definitely might. These are guidelines we (and now you!) can use when evaluating cards, not hard and fast rules. Sometimes we’ll try to push the boundaries for cool effects, and we won’t always get it right at first (hello Elnuks!). What’s important to us is that when you run into situations where you feel you’ve hit unhealthy randomness and there isn’t a way to tip the game back into your favor, you call it out.

Now with all that in mind, let’s talk about the bets we’ve made in Rising Tides to bring what we think is healthy randomness—and the risky, roguish charm Bilgewater is known for— to LoR.

BACK TO BILGEWATER
The randomness you’ll find in Bilgewater operates on a pretty simple idea: “I’m making a bet I know I’ve already won.” It’s a region that’s unafraid to stack the deck and finesse the board to make sure a hail of bullets hits the right targets.

02BW045.png
At first glance, it may look like Make it Rain is completely random. But we’ve used those levers of variance and uncertainty to make it more nuanced (and more healthy) than a coin flip.

First, it can’t hit the same enemy twice, meaning if your opponent has two units on the board, you’re guaranteed to hit both (and chip their Nexus, too!). You get to challenge your ability to adapt and execute to set up the board for the perfect cast of it, using Bilgewater’s removal effects to help you do so. (Alternatively, if you’re on the receiving end, you can predict it’s about to rain if your opponent focuses on getting your units to 1 health. Or if your bad knee starts aching.)

Second—and this is important—it’s only random for the player casting it. Once you commit Make it Rain, the targets are finalized and indicated. The opposing player gets to see exactly what is going to happen, and has a chance to effectively respond using that concrete information.

Let’s take a look at another card with built-in randomness:

02BW049.png
Like Make it Rain, there are a couple reasons why we believe this card will introduce healthy randomness:

Including this card in your deck is opting in to a playstyle that forces you to adapt a lot every game; you’ve made a choice to lean on that pillar of your skill.
Your opponent has a good idea of what the outcome can be, because they know all the cards in their deck and what you might have stolen.
Here’s one more example that brings randomness to both your play-by-play tactics (like Make It Rain) as well as the overall style of a deck (like Pilfered Goods):

02BW038.png
Our buddy Zap is an awesome example of the sort of variance and uncertainty we like to have in LoR:

It rewards you for constructing your deck in a way that lets you control the variance, and therefore the uncertainty.
Your opponent is rewarded for their knowledge of the different regions you’re playing, because the more awareness they have of all cards in that cost range, the better they can predict what you might have drawn.
DIVE IN
The true test of whether we’ve struck the right balance of randomness is how it feels to play, so we’re excited to see what you all think now that the cards are out in the wild. You can discover the rest of the Rising Tides set and the Bilgewater region right now (on both PC and mobile, by the way!) and try your hand at making randomness work for you. 

We hope you enjoyed this design dive; let us know what you think of it and if you’d like to see more in the future! Until then, may you always find fortune’s favor.
FROM CHAMP SELECT TO YOUR DECK
From a celestial dragon who forged the very stars to a literal tree (actually, there are two trees), League of Legends has a wide range of champions. And when it came to bringing them to Legends of Runeterra, we had a lot to work with: four (or more) abilities, a backstory, in-game dialogue, art, player feedback... You get it. Sometimes we had a little too much.

We’ve faced all that (and more) throughout development, and we want to talk about it. So here’s how we adapted a few of Set 1’s champs from League to LoR.

long-divider.png
Elise, the Spider Lady from... Somewhere
02_Elise.png
“Champions in League typically have ‘known properties,’ or basically thematic and gameplay,” shares game design manager Shaun “UNCONKABLE” Rivera. “We also get data—thanks to the insights team—about what players think. One of the things we do with that data is turn it into a word cloud to see if we’re going in the right direction.”

But sometimes the things champion mains say make their champion unique doesn’t quite match where the team is heading.

Early on, the team wanted to lean into Elise’s “Spider Queen” thematic by giving her spider-like attacks, an army of spiderlings, and an ascended Spider Queen form. You know, the standard kill-it-with-fire stuff. Initial internal playtests were positive, and the team felt they were landing the cocoon. So when the data from player surveys came in, they were a little surprised.

“Junglers had a very different view of Elise than we did,” product manager (then-insights analyst) Travis “Riot Dovagedys” Boese recalls. “They basically unanimously said, ‘When I’m Elise I’m going to shoot you with that cocoon skillshot, spider form it up, repel, and then bite the s*&^ out of you.’”

Players didn’t seem to care about the creepy crawly spider queen thing that the team thought made Elise, Elise. So... what now? Could they make Elise’s League AP jungler assassin gameplay work in LoR?

“While we were trying to figure out how to make Elise’s gameplay feel good to players, we were working with narrative to figure out where in Runeterra to even place her,” UNCONKABLE says.

03_Frenzied_Skitterer.jpg
For a quick narrative rundown, Elise is a former-mortal-Noxian-noblewoman-turned-spider-lady-from-demigod-bite who now lures Noxian noblemen to their deaths on the Shadow Isles so she can eat them to retain her youth and beauty (pro tip for all the skin care enthusiasts out there, btw). And while the differentiation between Noxus and Shadow Isles as a native region might not seem like it matters much, it informed the direction the team could take Elise.

“We made Elise from Shadow Isles, so we decided to double down on the spider-queen-surrounded-by-lots-of-spiderlings thing because it made sense for that region,” UNCONKABLE explains. “But we still wanted to pay homage to the players who like her cocoon-and-repel playstyle. And that’s where realization came in.”

LoR has a team dedicated to “champion realization.” Basically it’s the devs who make the art, sound, and effects that bring champions to life—all of the pretty things that make you say “ooh” and “aah” with the occasional “wait, what?” It was these devs who brought Elise’s gameplay player fantasy to life in LoR.

04_Elise_Leveled.jpg
But sometimes leaning heavily into a champ’s thematic gets a little... confusing.

long-divider.png
Ezreal, the... Space Cowboy?
05_Ezreal.jpg
The team did a lot of exploration with Ezreal. And while his League gameplay is iconic with tons of spells and high mobility, what if—and just hear us out—we leaned into his really cool explorer thematic?

06_Gauntlet.jpg	
In his earliest design, five artifacts would shuffle into your deck at the start of the game. And if you drew three of the five, Ezreal’s gauntlet would upgrade and he’d become incredibly strong. That’s Ezreal, right? Well...

“A lot of Ezreal mains at Riot didn’t understand what was happening,” UNCONKABLE says. “So we had to go back to the drawing board.”

“I remember during one of these feedback sessions a Rioter—who I won’t name—said they didn’t know what Ezreal’s deal was,” laughs Riot Dovagedys. “I have a very vivid memory of them asking, ‘Is hesupposed to be a space cowboy?’ And I was standing outside of the room going, ‘What the f*&^?’ So, yeah, we needed to keep trying.”

Have you ever seen the questionnaire that pops up in the corner of League at the end of a game asking for feedback? That’s what the insights team used to propagate word clouds for each champion.

“The methodology we were using at that time asked Ezreal players what his most identifiable trait was,” Riot Dovagedys explains. “The top answers were things like ‘high skill,’ ‘Mystic Shot,’ ‘Q spam,’ and stuff like that. We then gave those answers to the designers.”

So the dev team decided to reel back the thematics and listen to the players: Mystic Shot spam it would be!

07_Ezreal_Leveled.jpg
But sometimes player League fantasies are a bit more difficult to bring into a card game.

long-divider.png
Hecarim, the Really Fast Horse
08_Hecarim.jpg
“Hecarim was a difficult champ to bring to LoR,” says Riot Dovagedys. “The overwhelming sentiment we got from players was, ‘He’s a horse and he runs really fast.’ Which... Cool. But how do you make something run really fast in a card game?”

Luckily the realization team was up for the task.

Sometimes you get really lucky and get something right the first time. Making Hecarim was one of those times. When the team brought Hecarim mains in to test the Spectral-Rider summoning, Overwhelm Hecarim card and saw the build up of him casting his ultimate and moving really fast, that was it. Got ‘em. Time to call it a day.

Or was it?

“We were really interested in exploring Runeterra, and adding Followers was an interesting way to add depth to the world around the champions we knew from League,” says narrative lead Mel “Melell” Li. “League has a spotlight on champions, and LoR is like, ‘Who’s in your crew? If they’re at a bar, who does this champ talk to?’”

So if Hecarim was at a bar, who would he talk to?

“The majority of our card art was done by the incredible team at SIXMOREVODKA in Berlin,” says art director Greg “GiantArtist” Faillace. “We encouraged them to do a lot of exploration and to let their imaginations run wild.”

09_Shark_Chariot.jpg
“I came into the office one day and there were a bunch of explorations on the wall, and I saw this dude on a chariot with these three ghostly sharks. And it made such little sense that I was immediately in,” laughs UNCONKABLE. “One person on our team at the time absolutely hated it. They said it was the stupidest thing they’d ever seen. And I kept trying to convince them that we had to make it. And then we did! It’s so ridiculous. I love it.”

10_Hecarim_Leveled.jpg long-divider.png
Darius, the Big Hatchet Man
11_Darius_ALT.jpg
Some of LoR’s core mechanics didn’t exist in the beginning of development, including champion level up. Instead, in an effort to make champs feel like their League counterparts, they came with various spells when added to your deck.

“At one point Darius was a 5-cost 5|5, and when he attacked he’d do 1 damage to all enemies that weren’t in combat,” shares UNCONKABLE. “We wanted to give him a ‘punish the weak’ feeling to match that oppressive juggernaut fantasy. And he had his Noxian Guillotine spell that kills a damaged unit and lets you keep killing. They paired really well together.”

Then Darius mains at Riot got their hands on their beloved beefcake brute and delivered an overwhelming onslaught of feedback.

“Everyone said the light AoE damage felt more like Katarina than Darius,” says UNCONKABLE. “I tried to remind them there would be bleed effect visuals added, but they didn’t budge. I remember one person said to me, ‘No! I play Darius because I want to be big hatchet man!’”

So that version of big hatchet man went to the chopping block.

The next version of Darius leaned more heavily into his ultimate reset mechanics from League. When the enemy Nexus hits 10 or less health, he becomes a 10|5 with Overwhelm, similar to his current state.

12_Noxian_Guillotine.jpg
“It was around this time that we started to explore the level-up mechanic for champions,” shares Riot Dovagedys. “Shawn ‘smnoshoes’ Main and James ‘Bokurp’ Hata pitched the idea, and Darius was the first example they shared. It was a really elegant design. He leveled up and then boom, you’ve triggered this huge monster that’s going to kill you. It felt like Darius hitting level 6 in League.”

“Darius’ level up animation was the first one we completed,” adds senior software engineer Patrick “Riot Crowtaro” Conaboy. “I really wasn’t sold on the idea of playing a cutscene in the middle of the game. And then I saw him yoink the camera down with his E and I changed my mind. It was really exciting and made the game feel more dynamic.”

The new mechanic gave the narrative and art teams the ability to tell a deeper story as well.

“Writers on LoR work a lot on describing the scene: What’s the moment that expresses the gameplay? What’s the character experiencing at that exact instance? And then we give those prompts to the artists,” explains Melell.

The champion level ups made it easier to tell a story.

13_Darius_Leveled.jpg
“We try to give them each a quiet moment before the high action moment,” says Melell. “We want to make the cards feel like a storybook so players feel like they’re experiencing a real moment in these characters’ lives.”

But art prompts aren’t the only way the narrative team can make the cards feel more alive.

long-divider.png
Garen, the Hopeless Romantic
14_Garen.jpg
The Might of Demacia’s gameplay design was relatively straightforward. He protec, he attac, but… how does he interac? Aside from shouting “DEMACIAAAA” at the top of his lungs, who is Garen Crownguard?

“We knew way back in the day that we wanted to expand on voiceover work. We saw it in other card games, and it was already in League, but we wanted to take a closer look at the characters, especially champions,” Melell shares. “League has so many cool VO interactions, but there’s so much going on in the game. You need to stand right next to them to interact, and it’s usually hard to hear over the actual gameplay.”

So, what’s Garen like at a party? How is he different when talking to his aunt vs when he’s bantering with Katarina? You’ll have to play them together to see.

15_Garen_Leveled.jpg long-divider.png
Katarina, the Meat Grinder
16_Katarina.jpg
Katarina fell into the Hecarim “gotta go fast in a card game” bubble. But unlike Hecarim, it took numerous iterations to get it right. As a hyper-mobile assassin whose kit revolves around jumping all over the place, it wasn’t exactly an easy translation from Rift to deck.

“When we’re exploring cards early, we’re playing on paper so we can make changes faster,” explains UNCONKABLE. “We have to ask the playtesters to imagine all of the things like animations, sound effects, and visual flair. It can be challenging to get feedback on cards at this point because a lot of the game is all of the realization we add later.”

Before landing on her final quick-strike-and-return-to-hand gameplay, Katarina saw one iteration that was clearly wrong: the meat grinder.

Any time you resolved a spell, Katarina would do 1 damage to everyone in combat. The deck became Katarina, a bunch of Challengers, and as many spells as possible. But the team quickly realized that meat grinder Katarina was past its expiration date. It was time to try something else: Focus on her Death Lotus.

17_Blade_s_Edge.jpg	
“We gave Katarina her Blade’s Edge, and every time you resolved one, it’d shuffle two more into your deck. In theory it was just a hail of blades coming at you, but in reality no one played all of the blades at once,” recalls UNCONKABLE.

This meant that you’d have to physically press “Okay” every time someone played one of these cards. So if your opponent played 10, you’d just sit there, slowly accepting your inevitable defeat.

“That build lasted a day. And then Alexz ‘Careless Whisper’ Lee, one of the other designers, came over to my desk and said, ‘This is literally the worst time I’ve ever had in my life. I will f&^%ing destroy you if this stays,’” laughs UNCONKABLE. “Point is, you just have to try a bunch of stuff. And people will tell you right away if they’re having a good time or not.”

18_Katarina_Leveled.png
But where do you start when a champ has six (seven?) abilities to choose from?

long-divider.png
Karma, the Dragon Lady?
19_Karma.jpg
Karma holds a unique spot in League. She’s a support who provides powerful shields to her allies... and runs down her enemies with terrifying speed, snares them in spot, and blows them up with a massive burst of damage. So how do you translate all that to a single card?

20_Scaled_Snapper.jpg
“We used Karma’s creation as a reason to explore Ionia in more depth and establish its identity,” explains Melell. “Karma herself is a living embodiment of Ionia, so we wanted to see that natural world expressed through the design of her followers.”
Before we get into the specifics of Karma’s tumultuous design process, it’s important to call out some of the key differences between League and LoR. In League, a lot of the high points (often ults) for champions are AoE or crowd control—stuns, knockups, etc.—which is difficult to bring to a card game. And, unfortunately, that’s a big chunk of Karma’s kit.

The next problem is her Mantra-empowered Q, Inner Flame. If you’ve ever laned against her, you know it deals a shocking amount of damage. But in LoR, the team wanted to generally keep huge damage with champions it fits with thematically, so they decided to leave that to things like Jinx’s Super Mega Death Rocket.

That leaves barriers. Great. Cool. Ionia is a region that really likes barriers. But there was one problem: Shen.

21_Shen_Leveled.png
“When we were working on Karma, we knew we wanted Shen in the game. And his most iconic spell is his ult, Stand United,” UNCONKABLE explains. “At that point Shen literally was his ultimate. He was just a spell card. So we couldn’t give Karma these powerful shields, because it would diminish Shen.”

“We decided to look into her backstory, and there was one story where she staved off a Noxian invasion by summoning these two spirit dragons, which basically are the Mantra,” says UNCONKABLE. “We thought it was really cool, so we created a version of her where she’d summon two dragons. But no one understood what we were doing. Everyone said she felt like Annie summoning two Tibbers.”

That’s when game designer Noah “Riot DefaultChar” Selzer recommended exploring her Enlightenment thematic. The team loved the idea, and—unlike the dragon lady design—so did the Karma players.

22_Karma_Leveled.png
Sometimes the designers know what kind of design they want, just not the champion it goes with.

long-divider.png
Fiora, the Win Condition
23_Fiora.png
“I’m a big fan of Yu-Gi-Oh,” says UNCONKABLE. “As the initial design lead for LoR’s first set of cards, I knew that I wanted to add a card like Exodia to the game. And originally I wanted Heimerdinger to be the alternate win-con, but Andrew ‘Riot Umbrage’ Yip, LoR’s design director, had a really cool concept where Fiora won the game through combat. And it was just so good.”

As a nod to Fiora’s “casual pentakill” playstyle in League, in her original LoR version the “I win the game” mechanic required that she kill four units. But there was one problem: Sometimes you didn’t actually win the game.

“The card originally did 99 damage to the enemy Nexus,” explains Riot Dovagedys. “We didn’t have the tech yet to just win the game, so it had to do damage. But because of that there was a way you could not die.”

At the time Barriers could be cast on your Nexus, which is precisely what happened during one of Fiora’s playtest matches. The resulting press-F-to-pay-respects moment resulted in the engineers ensuring Fiora had the tech necessary to make sure no one else had to go through the pain of not winning when playing Fiora, the Win Condition.

24_Fiora_Leveled.png
But when it came to engineering challenges, Fiora was far from winning that game.

long-divider.png
Teemo, the Engineering Nightmare
25_Teemo.png
Teemo is... a controversial champion. He’s either someone you hate because he’s a sick, twisted sadist. Or he’s someone you love because you’re a sick, twisted sadist. Love him or hate him, Teemo changed the game for the better.

“Originally Teemo put a couple of mushrooms in your deck whenever he attacked. But unlike now, they did two or three damage each. When one hit you, it hurt SO MUCH,” says UNCONKABLE. “A lot of people on the team thought it felt bad.”

That’s when Riot DefaultChar suggested making Teemo a 1|1 Elusive who didn’t just plant shrooms in the opponent’s deck, he doubled them. By making Teemo a low-cost champ, he could be played early and start building the garden. And doubling the shrooms each time? There’s nothing quite like slapping your opponent in the face with a handful of mushrooms while spamming the Braum emote.

But there was one tiny problem: Teemo broke the game.

“In engineering, as you go further along in the development process, you build tools for yourself to use later,” explains Riot Crowtaro. “And since this was early, our toolbox wasn’t as well stocked. So in order to solve unique problems—like Teemo’s shrooms literally crashing the servers—sometimes you need to take the tools you have and turn them into the ones you need. Say you need to hammer in a nail, but you only have a saw. You just take the saw, turn it sideways, and bash it into the nail.”

Initially Teemo inserted actual mushroom cards into your deck for each mushroom he made. In his initial build where you’d have one or two, it wasn’t so bad. But the new double-the-count build from Riot DefaultChar meant instead of having 40-60 shrooms in a deck, you’d have a couple thousand.

26_Mushroom_Burst.png	
On top of that, cards that buff the others in your deck with +1|+1 (for example) meant going through all the shroom cards to make sure they didn’t need buffs too. When you’re talking about 40 vs 40,000, that makes a pretty big difference.

Beyond the engineering feat, there was a feelsbad situation for individual shroom cards. Each time you drew one, you’d have to sit through the entire animation, one at a time. In some cases, this meant sitting through hundreds of card draws as you watched yourself become more and more dead.

“So we made a few adjustments to the game. From an engineering standpoint, we made it so the mushrooms would attach themselves to a card, instead of being individual cards,” Riot Crowtaro says. “And we swapped from a one-at-a-time mushroom explosion animation to a single ticker animation, so it would count up really fast as you drew mushrooms. And we made changes to the animation system so animations can overlap.”

“Even recently we changed the way we calculated how mushrooms are doubled,” Melell adds. “We went through a variety of methods to calculate how many mushrooms were on each card because of the insane numbers of mushrooms some people were putting into their decks, which would then slow the game down considerably.”

In short: Players being so dead set on pushing and breaking rules caused the team to refactor mushroom calculations multiple times. So, bravo. You did it. You almost broke LoR. And for once, Teemo did something good.

“It’s been several years since all of this went down, and at this point we have a much more mature codebase,” Riot Crowtaro says. “We’re able to do a lot more ludicrous things without having to pretzel ourselves to make it happen. And because of Teemo, we can do a lot more in the future.”

27_Poison_Puffcap.png

And Teemo’s not the only Yordle to waddle his way into LoR.

long-divider.png
Heimerdinger, the Big-Brained Turret Man
28_Heimerdinger.png
“Heimerdinger was a lot of fun to figure out,” says UNCONKABLE. “In one of his earliest iterations, he built a turret and it just got bigger and crazier as you went. It was really cool, so Riot Umbrage wanted to lean further into the crazy inventor thing, where Heimer makes a bunch of turrets whenever you cast a spell and that mana is the turret’s power.”

So here’s Heimerdinger with all of these turrets. But what exactly is he planning on doing with them? What’s his pinnacle of brilliance? His magnum opus?

30_T-Hex.png
“I walked into the office one day and saw that someone had printed out a bunch of art and hung it on the wall. And T-Hex was up there,” laughs UNCONKABLE. “And I was like, well, obviously this is going to be a card. And someone told me that dinosaurs don’t exist in Runeterra.”

“I was that person!” GiantArtist interjects.

“Melell! It exists, right?” UNCONKABLE asks.

“All of the cards and ‘pieces’ that players interact with exist,” Melell laughs. “How they’re used, and how (if at all) they ever encounter each other is entirely up to the player.”

“I just hope players feel like we did him well,” adds UNCONKABLE. “I hope Heimerdinger players feel like they can make the crazy, big brain plays to go along with the crazy, big brain inventor.”

29_Heimerdinger_Leveled.png long-divider.png
Lux the It’s-Not-Just-A-Phase-Mom-I-Really-Don’t-Belong-Here Demacian Mage
31_Lux.png
“We have a goal for every champion to have a deck that they’re best fit for,” Riot Dovagedys shares. “And for a while, Lux broke that rule. She made a Final Spark that did 10 damage and cost 0 mana for a long time.”

“Yeah, her original intent was to be paired with Heimer. It was supposed to be a big spell deck,” UNCONKABLE offers.

But Heimer’s from Piltover and Lux is from Demacia. Big spells felt at home in Piltover, but since Demacia has that whole “persecute the mages” thing going on, it left Lux in a bit of a bind.

“She was difficult to do thematically,” adds Melell. “Her whole tagline is that she doesn’t fit in Demacia. So how do you do that while also making her cohesive with the cards from that region? We needed to figure out the relationship between Lux and Demacia. And I think we managed to do that when we found Mageseekers.”

32_Mageseeker_Investigator.png
As the team worked on Lux and the Mageseekers for LoR, other parts of Riot took notice.

“As we were fleshing out the backstory for these characters, someone mentioned how cool it would be to make a Lux comic,” Melell recalls. “The resulting comic with the Mageseekers came out before we announced LoR. It’s really cool seeing world building cross over to other mediums.”

33_Lux_Leveled.png
How would you feel if we told you Lux and Draven actually have a lot in common?

long-divider.png
Draven, the Foul-Mouthed Funnyman
34_.png
Noxus is a hyper-militaristic society. With champions like Swain, Darius, and Katarina calling it home, at first glance it’d be easy to confuse Noxus with a gathering of edgelords and tryhards. And then you have Draven, a bombastic showman with an inflated ego.

“We ran into similar problems with Draven that we had with Lux,” Melell says. “He just didn’t really fit in with Noxus—he’s fun-loving and over-the-top, which isn’t Noxus’ deal. So we looked at who he’d surround himself with. And that’s how we found the Reckoners.”

35_Kato.png
But a group of loud gladiators with a wrestling showmanship vibe wasn’t the only way the team was able to capture some of Draven’s... unique charm.

“There are these awesome moments where we’re able to show that you’re in the world of Runeterra and not on Summoner’s Rift,” Riot Dovagedys says. “I really love that when you have Draven in play and your opponent plays Teemo, Draven literally goes, ‘What the f*&^ is that?’”

“Woah, woah. It’s bleeped out! We don’t know what he’s actually saying,” Melell interjects. “You’d have to ask Conor ‘FizzNChips’ Sheehy what he meant when he wrote that line.”

“All right. All right. Well, we know it at least started with an f,” laughs Riot Dovagedys. “Anyway, it’s my favorite piece of VO because it feels like that’s how Draven would actually react if he saw Teemo. It’s so good! And everyone—well Greg sits far from me, so he doesn’t hear it but—everyone around me can attest to the fact that I yell our VO on the daily.”

“I can hear you,” GiantArtist smiles. “You’re yelling.”

“The point is, the VO makes these champions feel alive. And I just think it’s really cool to be able to see and hear that,” Riot Dovagedys clarifies.

36_Draven_Leveled.png long-divider.png
[Champion], the ???
“I feel like every champ just has some insane story. Early on we were trying tons of stuff, but we really just wanted to make sure players liked it—that we exceeded any expectations they might have,” says UNCONKABLE. “I’m really proud of what everyone did, and I hope players feel like we got it right for their champs. I’m excited to see what they think about future sets.”

While we weren’t able to share the stories ofevery champ that’s out so far, rest assured they all had their own unique quirks and challenges. We can’t wait to see what you think of the new ones, and we hope to share their stories in the future.
On this towering mountain, cosmic beings lend their might to mortals. Astral dragons soar beyond the sky. Tribes of the faithful devote themselves to the sun, moon, and stars.

Welcome to Targon and Legend of Runeterra’s next expansion: Call of the Mountain.


But Call of the Mountain isn’t just an expansion—it’s also a set, with two more expansions to come.

long-divider.png
What’s the Difference?
When Call of the Mountain drops on August 26, it kicks off a whole new structure for LoR card releases. We mentioned in What’s Next for Runeterra that we’d be doing card releases a little differently after launch, but now it’s time for specifics. Stay with us for a few paragraphs, and we promise it’ll make more sense.

Let’s start with some quick definitions:

An expansion is all the cards, champions, cosmetics, and game modes released with a major patch (roughly every two months). Each expansion will have a unique name; this next one is Call of the Mountain!
A set is a thematically and mechanically cohesive group of cards released over one or more expansions. The set shares its name with the first of these expansions—for example, the cards released in August, October, and December will all be part of the Call of the Mountain set. (This will matter down the line when it comes to deckbuilding rules for different formats and modes!)
Lastly, a new Ranked season starts whenever a new expansion is released and shares its name (so in this case, the Call of the Mountain Ranked season). Each Ranked season has a unique icon for you to earn based on which tier you reach.
In this article, we’ll be talking about the 3 expansions that make up the Call of the Mountain set. We’ll get into some of the “why” next, but first, here are the major points:

Starting with Call of the Mountain, we’ll release new cards roughly every two months (and maybe a few surprises here and there). Each three-expansion set will focus on a new region (in this case, Targon).
The first expansion in a set will be larger (for Call of the Mountain, you’re looking at 89 collectible cards with 7 champions), containing all the cards needed to introduce the new region’s major themes and multiple viable decks featuring that region.
The second and third expansions will each be about half that size (for CotM, that’s 40 cards with 3 champs in both the October and December expansions). These expansions will have a mix of new themes, new mechanics, and evolutions of strategies you encountered in the first expansion.
Going forward, every set will add a new champion to each region, and every expansion will contain new cards for each region; however, in a given expansion, some regions will have more cards than others, including champions. By the time the third expansion is released and the set is complete, all regions will have an equal share of champions and near-equal share of other cards.
Even when we aren’t adding a new champ to your favorite region, each expansion will offer cards to support classic strategies or introduce new twists on old favorites.
SetSplitGraphic_v2.jpg
That’s a lot to digest! It’s all a bit abstract right now, but it’ll become more clear as cards release. That said, you’re probably asking: why switch to this?

long-divider.png
Rising Tides and the New Wave
Since the start of LoR, we’ve been looking for ways to maximize experimentation and support strategic variety. We had some ideas that worked well, and others that needed some tinkering. But one thing we hadn’t yet talked about in-depth was how we thought future card releases could impact this goal.

We knew we wanted an expansion right at launch: It meant a bunch of new champs and cards for those playing since beta, while new players could come in at a moment where everyone was discovering new content together. That expansion became Rising Tides, which introduced Bilgewater and 120 new cards. Rising Tides was an effective way to kick off launch, but that didn’t mean we needed to do future expansions the same way—and in fact, many devs had been talking about another method for some time.

Page_Break.jpg
We spend a lot of effort trying to keep LoR's metagame fresh for as long as possible—to stay in that sweet spot where there’s an array of decks and nothing feels solved. This leads to design decisions like establishing a tighter range for card power level, building strategies around champs so they'll all have a home in at least one deck, and investing in a “live design” team that actively works to maintain the environment.

Another decision the design team had considered since very early in the game's development was—you guessed it—more overall card releases. One of the simplest (and exciting) ways to shake up a meta is to just add more cards, more frequently; but that comes with a cascade of additional design decisions and tradeoffs. Call of the Mountain was our first opportunity to explore how a full set could fit into different expansions, and how that new structure might work for future sets.

The core idea was to create more frequent points of strategy discovery and meta disruption; instead of one big launch party that slowly fizzled out, what if we had multiple expansions and months of energizing twists and turns?

long-divider.png
The Shape of Targon
Like in any card game, we start designing LoR sets way in advance. That’s because the design is just the first step in a long process where we playtest, balance, iterate on the design, playtest, illustrate, record voice lines, add in a few more cards, playtest, polish, playtest, and bug-squash (not to mention prepping a little marketing pizzazz as well).

We’d already started developing the Targon region and its set before we even announced the existence of Legends of Runeterra. Once we locked in the three expansions approach, we introduced new questions into the design process: Which themes and mechanics interact with one another? Which champions and followers should go into each expansion? And how do we batch together cards to support deck archetypes across the entire set?

By the time the Call of the Mountain cards were ready, so was the plan—which begins tomorrow with the first card reveals.

All of the design decisions that went into making the first Call of the Mountain expansion could be an article of their own—so that’s what we’re going to do! We’ll be back after Call of the Mountain releases with Set Lead Shawn Main to break down the themes you’ll see in this expansion and how they create a foundation for the set as a whole. Keep an eye out for it!

Page_Break.jpg
Expanding Expansions
We hope you’ll find your first experience with Targon all the more awesome as you discover the beginning of new archetypes and potential for revamping classic ones, and only get more excited as supporting tools and evolving strategies are revealed in the expansions to follow.

While Call of the Mountain is the template for three-expansion sets, future sets will continue to build on that template and possibly shake things up further. This is partly because we have more time and opportunity to really make them shine in this new structure, but also because every region we add will require more and more cards in the expansions to ensure ALL regions have an equal amount of cards at the end of a new set.

But once again, we’ll be looking to you, the community, to see how this plays out and what we can keep improving. Thanks for playing, and as always, let’s build a better card game together.
It’s sometimes difficult to tell the story of how something was designed, especially when there are a lot of moving pieces. It’s rarely a straightforward journey from point A to point B. You start with one set of ideas, but these sometimes shift as you discover something unexpected that demands more support, or when a solution to one problem offers a new path towards another. Legends of Runeterra’s design process is one of rapid prototyping and testing ideas early, starting first from core design pillars. We then shift our focus to champions and deck strategies, then to cards and mechanics, and finally to balance and polish.

All of this design work needs to be guided by a strong, central vision. For Targon, the team laid out our design pillars very early, informed by the themes of Targon and the champion roster: cosmic power, day and night, and the journey up the mountain. The challenge for design was figuring out how to translate these into cards and other gameplay experiences—and across not one, but three expansions.

In this article, we’re going to take a look at how we developed the core gameplay identity of Targon, and how the first expansion for Call of the Mountain introduces it with various cards. We’ll also look at how champions from other regions bring their own crew to support Targon’s gameplay, and give you an idea of how it will evolve in the next two expansions. And lastly, we’ve packed in some anecdotes from the design process we hope you enjoy reading about.

Let’s head up the mountain!

Arbiter_900x300.jpg
Invoking Cosmic Power with Celestials
The highest peak of Mount Targon serves as a gate to the Celestial realm, said to be the home of Aspects who are abstract and beyond mortal comprehension. This flavor is key to Targon and its champions, so we knew we had to find a way to represent this cosmic power and divine aid from the stars.

In the early stages of design, we do a lot of our testing in paper—cards hastily written out so we can try ideas quickly, without investing in coding strange new abilities. During this time, we explored a few mechanics in the cosmic power vein—space gods that required spending multiple rounds worth of mana to summon, and aspects that possessed your existing units. Eventually, it was a deceptively simple idea from Mark “G-Major” Sassenrath that played the best.


He proposed Celestials shouldn’t be cards that could go in your deck, but instead be a special pool of cards that could only be summoned inconsistently through other actions. This led to the Invoke mechanic, nicknamed “Divinate” initially. With Celestial cards existing outside your deck, they could be stronger than comparably costed collectible cards within your deck, because the cost would be budgeted into the price of the Invoke. This would make the Celestial cards feel powerful and serve our design goal of variety, while also rewarding skillful play and fitting thematically into the unknowability and capriciousness of the cosmos.

When it came to the Celestial cards themselves, we quickly latched onto the overall shape: each cost from 0-10 mana would have both a unit and a spell. Mechanically, this served variety, kept the cards relevant throughout the game, and made the mechanic valuable to different decks in different ways. An aggressive deck could Invoke early to set up Nightfall activations, while a more midrange deck might Invoke for removal or cards to help close out a game. Flavorfully, having so many Celestials offered a cosmic hierarchy that could simultaneously contain an adorable puppy constellation and a terrifying stellar Baron Nashor



Keeping the mechanic relevant at multiple costs would also prove to be the trickiest part to balance. Throughout design, we had a constant see-sawing back and forth. First the early cards were too strong and no one would ever pick the expensive Celestials; then we’d balance them and the expensive Celestials would be game breaking, and people would stop including win conditions in their decks. It went back and forth for months. We discussed some radical solutions like not letting players pick expensive Celestials unless they had invoked a certain number of times, making the powerful end game options only available to players with dedicated Invoke decks. I was nervous about a solution that layered more complexity onto a system that already had a high knowledge burden. But eventually, Xian “Riot Xaenya” Li would address this balance challenge with an elegant solution, giving expensive Celestials more power based on how many Celestial cards you’d played. This way anyone could take them, but it would only be the dedicated Invoke deck that could unlock their full power.


The Center of the Universe: Aurelion Sol
That’s the story of Invoke as a mechanic, but let’s back up and get Aurelion Sol into the picture.

Aurelion Sol was a champion that I knew I wanted in this set from the beginning. Partly it was the strong visuals and concept—a cosmic space dragon with an enormous personality—but I also knew that the nature of a card game gave us an opportunity to do something League of Legends couldn’t. League needs to put every champion on roughly even footing, so even Teemo has to be able to directly compete with Aurelion Sol. But LoR doesn't need to do that. We have cost (and level up conditions) to distinguish the power of champions.So in LoR, Teemo can be an efficient, exciting card on round 1, while we can make Aurelion Sol a game-dominating 10 mana card and truly deliver his godlike majesty.

Once the Invoke mechanic was in place, ASol’s general shape followed—he would Invoke and he would make Celestials; he would have Spell Shield to help protect your enormous investment; he would require immense power from you to level up, and his level 2 would be as over-the-top powerful as we could make it. There are cards that take many iterations to get right, but we had the rough shape of the Star Forger from fairly early in design.



Matching Cosmic Might with Trolls
When adding a champion to a set, we like to look at the mechanical and thematic hooks that could connect them to other champions, particularly those in other regions. We ideally want a deck for every 2-region pairing, so look for both natural pairings as well as where we need to work to seed in connections.

With Aurelion Sol so expensive and Invoke potentially so mana hungry, we knew he would naturally pair with Freljord for its ramp cards, but it wasn’t immediately obvious which Freljord champ we should choose. Initially, we were excited by Trundle’s ice pillar as a potential stall tool that might offer sideways support to ASol in a slow deck. But unlike ASol, Trundle took a LOT of iterations to figure out and would evolve considerably from our first drafts.



At different points, Trundle and his trolls cared about 0 power (rewarding cards like Faces of the Old Ones and Frostbite effects), regeneration (rewarding Avalanche and Challenger), and even generating lots of mini Wyrding Stones, but he never clicked into place, especially as something you might consider playing in the same deck as ASol. Dave Guskin would solve this, asking “What if he just wanted you to play really expensive cards?” This would lead directly to using “if you Behold an 8+ cost card” and the notion of trolls worshipping the mighty. Everything clicked into place from there.The trolls had a unique identity that fit with Freljord and could connect with a lot of potential decks, including the mana hungry ones in Targon, and we could design a Trundle that was true to his League persona as a giant, bullying brute.

This is one of those places where I get nervous pulling back the curtain because it’s possible no one will want to play Trundle in the same deck as Aurelion Sol. The reality is that’s perfectly fine and fits within our goals. As designers, we care most that the game supports a high variety of different decks with different playstyles, that every champion card feels thematic to the champion character, and that they all have a home in a deck. To achieve this, we seed in certain mechanical connections. For some strategies and champs, we think it’s valuable for these to be loud and obvious (like playing Diana and Nocturne together for the shared Nightfall synergies). Other times, it will be subtle or open-ended. In these cases, we’ve explored potential decks internally, but know that we can’t match the collective brainpower of players. That’s even more exciting! As long as we’ve built sturdy enough tools, players will surprise us and there’s no more satisfying feeling than that as a designer.



The Cycle of Day and Night
The human inhabitants of the mountain are a people known as the Rakkor. Most are sun-worshippers, but there is a secret heretic sect of moon worshippers. To put it mildly, the two groups do not get along. Editor’s note: Shawn’s characterization of the noble Lunari as “heretics” is his own opinion and does not reflect that of the entire LoR dev team.

This duality—day and night, sun and moon, Solari and Lunari—is the essential conflict of the people of Targon and something we knew we needed to reflect in the cards.

We explored a LOT of angles, particularly around the notion that the whole game would shift between a state of day and night, either automatically every other round or as you played cards that changed the time of day. These mechanics proved really interesting, but ONLY when both players were using them and on opposite sides—a day deck vs a night deck in a tug of war over the sky. We explored ways to get non-day/night decks to engage in the cycle, but it pulled so much focus that we reframed and tried to isolate the mechanics to rewarding actions a player could control.

Noah “Riot DefaultChar” Selzer proposed the mechanics that became Daybreak and Nightfall. Daybreak would reward the first play of the round and Nightfall every card after it. We thought this was perfect—not only did it succeed as a reflection of the Targonian conflict, but each mechanic gave its cards a unique quality. Day was deliberate, in your face, and unsubtle, while night rewarded waiting and careful setup through banking mana, only to unleash a big round where you might play multiple Nightfall cards in a flurry. Plus, I liked that the mechanics were open-ended and could be used in any deck (and could even complement one another), but we could also create “build around cards” like Leona and Diana or Rahvun and Duskrider that would encourage you to play dedicated Day or Night decks.



Embracing the Darkness
The Solari and Lunari are deeply connected to Targon, but, as mentioned with Trundle, we like to find those cross-champion/cross-region mechanical connections where possible, so we searched for who else might play into these themes of sun/moon, day/night, light/dark. Nocturne stood out with his penchant for casting Summoner’s Rift into darkness and fit the Nightfall pattern of lying in wait only to spring suddenly on you.

With a champion like Nocturne who doesn’t have a specific region connection, we try to find a home that makes sense either thematically or mechanically (and ideally both). Thematically, we liked Nightfall in Shadow Isles with its literal connections to shadow and darkness, but we also had a nice base of aggressive Shadow Isles cards that could complement the mechanic. Typically, Nightfall rewards early rounds spent banking mana, getting ready, then springing cards on you in a single round. We knew this could have an almost horror movie feel and allowed the team to build out creatures that jumped out of the shadows (or even were composed of shadow), a nice contrast to stealthy Lunari assassins.



The Journey Up the Mountain
Mount Targon is itself a crucible—a towering, impossibly tall mountain that calls to travelers who dare to ascend it. It is a journey and a physical trial that rewards strength and allies who have your back.

This design pillar wouldn’t inspire a keyword in the same way as the other pillars (Shawn looks around, leans in, and whispers: at least not one I can talk about for this release), but it did lead us to consider the suite of abilities that would define Targon’s region identity. We asked ourselves: Which mechanics and champions could play into this journey motif?

Simultaneous to exploring the design pillars, as we introduce a new region, we consider the needs of its full roster of champions—are there common mechanics we should make sure the region contains? This includes considering champions that we won’t introduce until future releases. In the case of Targon, it stood out that the region has a relatively high number of support champs.



Leaning into LoR’s support mechanic itself would imply certain other needs for the region’s cards. Supports obviously protect or buff your units, so it would require units that wanted to be protected or buffed (such as those with keywords like Overwhelm) and also would require tools to protect your supports so they wouldn’t always die on attack.

Thematically, this fit the journey motif beautifully: Weak heroes begin the journey, but through cooperation and hardship they grow stronger until they reach the top of the mountain (and end of the game) as powerful heroes.

Mechanically, though, it turned out that having a lot of support units could be problematic. First, the mechanic rewards offense, making them terrible on defensive rounds. We solved this by making Targon’s support bonuses permanent. Now if you are able to attack, you’ll be stronger and more able to block. This also made their support units naturally powerful in a long game, and fit Targon’s spells leaning more on “grant” type buffs. Second, sequencing your attack can become very challenging when you have a lot of support units. We tried to address this at both ends, having obvious targets (you see this the loudest in the second support region, Ionia, with cards like Flower Child) and having cards that encourage you to sequence them in a certain way (such as Mountain Sojourners).

Unlike Aurelion Sol, Leona, and Diana, it wasn’t immediately obvious that Taric needed to be in Call of the Mountain, but when we considered the theme of journeying, the support mechanic, and a region defined in part by buffs, he became the natural choice to fill out the roster. We were especially excited that his followers in particular could tell the tale of journeying up the mountain.



More Support With Lulu and Friends
I’ll be honest with you: when I wrote the first draft of this article, I didn’t mention Lulu. It wasn’t that I forgot her, but simply didn’t have any particular stories to tell, mostly because she fit so neatly into all our work on the set. We chose her initially to build out the support themes and because we liked the contrast she provided to some of the more serious themes of the set. Her League abilities translated really well into card mechanics and her support cards mostly struck a balance of being open-ended, while also playing nicely together. The main challenges were that, in their final versions, Lulu and Taric didn’t necessarily want to go in the same deck, but as I mentioned with Trundle, that was hardly a problem. They both had decks that were really excited to play them, and we even added a few extra support cards to Ionia (Pix and Fuzzy Caretaker) to round things out, but, all told, Lulu and friends saw the least iteration among cards in the set. Sometimes you get lucky and get more time to devote to designing space dragons.



The Climb Continues
So that’s how we ended up with the mechanics and champions in the first expansion for Call of the Mountain. But that’s just the first of three, and the next two need to continue fleshing out the gameplay identity of Targon.

We’re designing Targon and the Call of the Mountain set as a whole, which means there are more pieces to the gameplay puzzle coming in the following expansions. There are some aspects of the region identity we haven’t even touched on yet, and will bring with them new cards / keywords. Others, like Dragons or healing, are present already, but could use additional support to really make the strategy shine. Additionally, our hope is that the introduction of these new twists on Targon’s gameplay keeps the meta feeling fresh throughout the entire set.

That’s All, Folks
Thanks for reading through this and letting me share our experience in designing Call of the Mountain! We hope you love the expansion, and can’t wait to see what strategies you discover on your way to the top of Targon.
This article has been updated from the original Seasonal Tournaments announcement FAQ published on 10/15. We’ve made a few minor updates to original questions, and added or significantly updated a few (marked [NEW]) covering things like the tournament waitlist, game timers, and prizing.

If you’re looking for an exact schedule for the Monuments of Power Seasonal Tournament, or info on how to watch the Playoffs stage, check out the dedicated schedule & broadcast article.

If you’re looking for the official legal details or complete tournament ruleset, head to the comprehensive Global Player Policy—warning, it’s lengthy.

What are seasonal tournaments?
Seasonal tournaments are the apex of competition in Legends of Runeterra, exclusively for the best of the best, and supported fully in-game.

How often will there be a tournament?
There will be a seasonal tournament at the end of each season (makes sense, right?), so roughly every two months.

How many players can compete in each tournament?
At the end of every season, 1024 qualifying players on each of LoR’s four regional shards—Americas, Asia, Europe, and Southeast Asia—will be able to compete for pride, glory, and a cash prize.

How do I qualify?
There are two ways to qualify for a seasonal tournament: Ranked and Gauntlets.

Be one of the top 700 Ranked players on your regional shard at the end of the season and you’ll automatically qualify for the tournament.

324 more players can qualify by being the first to achieve 7 wins on their first attempt in the high stakes Last Chance Gauntlet, which takes into account your performance in previous Gauntlets throughout the season. The Last Chance Gauntlet will take place shortly after the end of the Ranked season.

How does the Last Chance Gauntlet work?
Get 7 wins on your first attempt at a weekly Gauntlet to achieve a Prime Glory. Again, only your first attempt of the week is eligible.
Each Prime Glory you earn throughout the season, up to 5, counts as an automatic win in the Last Chance Gauntlet.
Be one of the first to complete the Last Chance Gauntlet with 7 wins to earn that final Prime Glory and qualify for the tournament.
The more Prime Glories you have, the more likely you’ll be one of the first 324 players to finish —so make sure to compete in a Gauntlet each week!

What’s the tournament structure?
Each seasonal tournament takes place across two stages—the Open Rounds, and Playoffs. The Open Rounds consist of 5 Swiss Rounds of Best of Three matches to determine the top 32 players. These finalists advance to the Playoffs, a week later, to compete in a single elimination bracket. The victor will be crowned Season Champion and win the grand prize.

When will the first tournament take place?
The first tournament will take place at the end of the Monuments of Power season. The competition takes place over two days, with 1024 players competing in the Open Rounds on December 6, 2020, and 32 finalists competing in the Playoffs on December 13, 2020.

How will tournament matches work?
On Day 1, players will compete in Best of Three matches using a combination of rules. For Seasonal Tournaments 2020, the following rules will be in effect:

Players bring three different decks with no duplicated champions, no duplicated region combination, and no more than one deck without any champions at all.
40 cards to a deck, from up to 2 regions; up to 3 copies of any individual card, and up to 6 champions total.
Players ban one of their opponent’s decks before the matches begin.
Players cannot use a deck again after winning a game with it.
[NEW] How long will each tournament round last?
Each tournament round lasts for 70 minutes maximum, with a 5 minute break between rounds. Each round includes the following:

Game 1

5 minute preparation phase
1 minute ban phase
30 second pick phase
Game 2+

1 minute pick phase
Round durations will be tightly controlled by a persistent 60-minute round timer shared by both players. The round timer starts counting down once the Ban phase starts, and new games can only start while Round Time is active, otherwise the current game results are used to declare a victor.

Each player, in each game, will have an individual game time of 7 minutes, 30 seconds. Overtime kicks in for either an individual player who has used all their Game Time, or both players for 5 minutes after the round timer has expired. Players will only have 20 seconds for their turn during Overtime, and will no longer be able to bank additional time.

A tournament-wide “hard stop” will terminate any ongoing games 5 minutes after the round timer for a given round has expired. In the case of an unfinished game, victory will be awarded to the player with the most game time remaining.

How does matchmaking work for the Open Rounds?
Players will initially be matched based off their season Rank. After that, the Swiss-style rounds will match players based on their current scores. After five rounds, the top 32 players will advance to the next day, with an additional 15 allocated to the Playoffs waitlist (based on result and seed).

For those doing the math, a single loss effectively means you’re out of contention for the Playoffs. However, you can continue competing to earn an exclusive card back only available to those who reach 3 wins in the tournament.

[NEW] What happens if qualifying players decline to participate? Could I take their place?
Yes! We’ll have a per-shard waitlist for players that missed the cut, comprised of Masters-ranked players and additional players who earned a Prime Glory in the Last Chance Gauntlet.

The Open Rounds waitlist will be an ordered list starting with the next 300 Master-tier players who missed the top 700 cut for the tournament, followed by the next 700 players who earned a Prime Glory in the Last Chance Gauntlet after the 324 LCQ qualifiers.

If you’re on the waitlist, you’ll sign in at the start of the tournament, just like the qualifying players. If a player drops out and you’re next on the list, your lobby will update accordingly and you’ll be in the tournament!

How is the bracket determined for the Playoffs?
The bracket will use a standard seeding system, where the highest seed players from the Open Rounds are placed into a matchup, which are then filled by the lowest seed players (players that have the same record from the Open Rounds of the tournament will be seeded according to their season Rank). Any byes due to an uneven number of competitors will be given to the highest seeded players.

Please note that those who qualify for this stage of Seasonal Tournaments will need to validate their country of residence in order to participate—make sure to check your email if you make it to the top 32 (or are on the Playoffs waitlist)!

[NEW] What’s the grand prize? Are there other prizes for participation?
The grand prize for winning the entire tournament is $10,000 USD, with smaller cash prizes for the rest of the top 32.All competitors will receive an exclusive icon and have a chance to earn an exclusive card back by reaching 3 wins in any tournament. The icon and card back will be awarded to players at the end of the Open Rounds.

Full prizing details:

1st: $10,000 (USD)
2nd: $3,500 (USD)
3rd & 4th: $800 (USD)
5-8th: $400 (USD)
9-32nd: $150 (USD)
3+ wins in Open Rounds: Card Back
All Competitors: Player Icon
All tournament cash prizes will be distributed by local publishers and be awarded as per countries’ tax laws depending on country of residency, so exact payment amounts may vary (again, based on local tax laws).

Can competitors use different decks for the Open Rounds and Playoffs?

Players will submit their three decks during sign-in for each of the two stages of the tournament, so it will be possible for the final 32 to use different decks than they did during the Open Rounds.

[NEW] How can I watch the tournament?
We plan to broadcast the entire Playoffs stage (the top 32 player single elimination bracket) of each tournament on local channels around the world—you can find full current details in our dedicated schedule & broadcast article.

Will seasonal tournaments be a path to pro? How do tournaments connect to esports?
We want tournaments to be one path to going pro, and have more plans to support those taking that path. It’s still a bit too soon to talk about, so stay tuned for more info in the future.

World Championship when?
We’re working on some competitions that are even bigger than seasonal tournaments, but nothing to share just yet.

Can I participate in tournaments on multiple shards at the same time? What about using a VPN to participate on another shard?
Both of these are a “definitely not.” The goal of seasonal tournaments is for players to compete on their shard within their country of residence. In order to preserve the integrity of per-shard tournaments, we will disqualify anyone found to be using a VPN to obfuscate their location or otherwise competing in a shard outside their country of residence. That includes any players who manage to qualify for multiple tournaments—we’ll ask you to decline for any shards that do not include your country of residence. Sorry, but we’re taking a hard line on this one.

Can anyone participate in Seasonal Tournaments?
Not necessarily—participation in the tournament is potentially subject to local stipulations, restrictions, or exclusions based on where you live.

Can Rioters participate in seasonal tournaments?
No Rioters will participate in a seasonal tournament, and if there’s a mistake, we’ll correct it. That also means if a Rioter would qualify by being one of the top 700 Ranked players, they will drop out of the tournament and leave their spot open for a player on the waitlist.

Will a Tournament mode be available for custom tournaments?
For now we’re focused squarely on preparation for the first Seasonal Tournament, but long-term we’d like to make more tournament features available to players in game—we'll have more detail to share next year.

[NEW] Can I add-ons like a deck tracker?
Normally permitted add-ons such as deck trackers may be used during Seasonal Tournaments.

Of course, the use of any kind of cheating device and/or cheat program is not permitted and will result in disqualification and possible account action.

What about X? I have more questions!
We’re still working on some things and will provide additional updates as new details become available. Some of the details above may also change or end up varying based on where you live—look for more on local stipulations or expectations on your local Legends of Runeterra channels leading up to the tournament.
Hey folks. I’m Exis, though I think some of you know me better by my profile picture. Officially speaking I’m LoR’s Gameplay Engineering Lead, but I also run the Labs team. I’d like to talk a bit about where Labs came from, what Labs is, and how it’s changing in 2021!


INTRO: LIVE AIN’T EASY
When a game finally gets released to players like LoR did last year, there’s a pretty significant gear change toward live operations. Suddenly you’ve got a living, breathing game you need to keep running 24/7, a bunch of bugs you need to fix, and a ton of new players eager for more: more cards, more events, more boards, more emotes, more everything!

It’s incredibly exciting, but it can also make it hard to try new things. You’ve created expectations with players (and with yourself) about the quality and polish of your game. If you want to add something new and different, like a new feature, card mechanic, or game mode, it takes a really long time to get that new thing up to the same level of quality and polish to meet those expectations. Even if you can find all that time, what if your new thing… doesn’t quite hit the mark? Even worse, what if your new thing is… well… bad?

All that cost and all that risk can be paralyzing. It can make a game much slower to try new things once it goes live, or even stop it from evolving entirely! Enter: Labs.

LABS: DOING IT LIVE
We knew that once LoR went live, we’d have our hands full. But we also wanted LoR to keep growing and changing, and that’s where the idea for Labs came from: what if we could make it really easy (relatively speaking) to try new stuff in our live game?

The Labs proposal was simple. Let’s rope off a corner of our game, put giant “UNDER CONSTRUCTION” signs around it, and make it really clear to players that this is a section of LoR dedicated to experimentation. Let’s trust players to understand that not everything will be perfect, and take them on that R&D journey with us. Rather than feeling like we have to meet their expectations, let’s embrace our live playerbase as a huge resource for feedback, positive and otherwise!

The Labs team was officially formed almost exactly a year ago, in April 2020, with a mission to deliver on that model for live R&D. It’s a surprisingly small team that focuses on executing really fast, building experiences centered around very specific goals that will prove (or disprove) theories about where our game might go next.

Sometimes we're testing a whole new game mode. Sometimes it's as narrow as a new type of card content, or as nuanced as a style of play. Whatever the experiment, it's always performed with the same mindset: we're going to try lots of things, knowing that not all of them will be winners, and some will be awful. But a few will be great. And when we find those especially promising threads, we'll listen to what players think about them and start to follow them wherever they may lead!

Last year we wanted to get really good at this model, so we practiced a lot with smaller experiments. We released a new Lab every single patch, and learned a ton about the tools and skills we need to build Labs well. Now, in 2021, we feel like we’re ready to focus our efforts into some bigger Labs, and a pair of bigger challenges: PVE and 2v2.

PVE: FEELING POWERFUL
PVE_Roadmap_5_18_21_v1.jpg

There are some player experiences LoR doesn’t provide today, though we believe it could. One of the foremost examples is that you don’t get to feel like you’re growing stronger over time. No matter how much you succeed with your deck, it doesn’t get any more powerful when you take it into your next match, even though you may be improving as a player. You don’t get to level up and earn a new skill, or gain higher stats for the next fight. You don’t get to feel the satisfaction of equipping a new item, seeing how badass it looks on your character, and wielding it to your advantage. That experience of power progression is one that lots of games provide in one form or another, because it can be satisfying and exciting as a player. But you don’t quite have it in LoR. Yet.

Now, the constraints of LoR’s carefully balanced PVP ecosystem make it a challenge to express power progression. But ever since the Journey to the Peak Lab last year, we’ve been excited to explore it through PVE modes instead. The AI doesn’t care about balance. I can come into the match with a totally busted deck, and my PVE opponent won’t mind… in fact, it may have a few unfair tricks up its own sleeve. And PVE modes let us create lower-stress play experiences, tell more stories about Runeterra and its inhabitants, and more.

The question we want to answer: Can we use LoR’s existing gameplay rules and existing cards to create a compelling PVE experience that satisfies those needs? And could that experience be a permanent mode someday, with regular content updates just like our VS modes?

PVE EXPERIMENT 1: JOURNEY TO THE PEAK
Journey_to_the_peak_mode_image_5_18_21_v1.png

HIT THE MARK
Resounding enthusiasm for PVE
Low-stress environment to learn
Powers are exciting
Opportunities for storytelling
AREAS TO IMPROVE
Way too short
Not enough champion options
Adding cards isn’t as exciting
Our first foray into PVE was a really focused, simple proof of concept. We wanted to see if there might be some promise in a more roguelike LoR experience.

The feedback we got from the community was mostly what we wanted to hear: “More, please!” We knew the runs were short, and that choosing new cards between battles wasn’t as exciting as the initial power selection players got to make. But the focused feedback from players helped us start to zoom in on power progression as something uniquely valuable for our next experiment.


PVE EXPERIMENT 2: LAB OF LEGENDS
Lab_of_Legends_mode_image_5_18_21_v1.png

HIT THE MARK
It feels good to grow your power
Items really change the game
Each run feels different
Players still want more
AREAS TO IMPROVE

Enemies get repetitive
No progression between runs
The AI could use some work
Poor Taliyah
The response to Lab of Legends has been staggering. We enjoyed the mode internally, but we weren’t sure what to expect from players.

What we got was a lot of people loving the mode for very different reasons, and putting a ton of hours into it. Whether players like Lab of Legends because it’s a lower-stress environment to enjoy LoR’s gameplay and content, because it can feel good to roll the dice once in a while, or because they love that feeling of getting more powerful over time… the Lab has been a hit with existing and new LoR players alike.

long-divider.png

It’s clear to us that the Lab of Legends formula deserves to be elaborated on. We’re going to keep exploring incremental improvements to the existing Lab, like the ones we made a few patches ago to add difficulty tiers, rerolls, and run summaries. But we also think there are more parts of the power progression and PVE space that LoR can (and should) explore, so stay tuned for another major step forward coming in the next few months. We’re on a journey with a clear goal: we want to create a permanent experience that players can keep coming back to for years to come.

2V2: A MORE SOCIAL LOR
Social_Roadmap_5_18_21_v1.jpg

The second half of our exploration this year is focused on giving LoR players ways to play together.

I have all these amazing moments in our game: nail-biting wins and heartbreaking losses, cunning outplays and (more) facepalm-inducing misplays. But sharing any of those moments with a friend can be tough, unless they're watching over my shoulder or I happen to be streaming. Being able to play a game with my friends has become more and more important to me over time; sharing the game’s highs and lows with someone not only satisfies my social side, it amplifies all the most exciting moments for me. Luckily, we believe there are plenty of ways we could make the game more social, and LoR will be exploring a few of them this year.

Labs is contributing to that social effort by exploring multiplayer game modes. Now, multiplayer is a big space, with a lot of options for a card game. What if you could bring a friend with you into ranked, and grind together? Or should we recreate a MOBA-style 5v5, spread across a bunch of lanes? Or should LoR be the world’s first true battle royale card game?! Actually, the 5v5 thing sounds pretty cool. But for now, we’re focusing our efforts on 2v2 modes.

We think 2v2 hits a sort of “sweet spot.” It’s a closely cooperative experience where we can be invested in one another’s success. It’s not too hard to organize and find time for, since I just need one friend to jump into queue with me. And it’s something the Labs team can get up and running (and iterate on) pretty quickly, letting us take in feedback and make improvements much faster than a more complex co-op more right out of the gate..

2V2 EXPERIMENT 1: UNITED FRONT & UNITED FRONT PVP
2v2_United_Front_Mode_image_5_18_21_v1.png

HIT THE MARK
Clear excitement for social modes
Novelty of sharing a board
Close cooperation
Unique multi-region strategies
AREAS TO IMPROVE
Premade decks get repetitive
Pacing can feel way too slow
Clogged boards due to card flow
Hard to balance
This was our first attempt at a teamplay mode, and it took a ton of underlying tech work to make possible. Despite the Lab’s rough edges, players could see the potential and expressed a lot of eagerness for more social modes!

In the co-op vs AI version of the Lab, players wanted more variety: a wider range of enemy decks, and more deck options. The PVP sequel started to address some of that variation concern by pitting players against unpredictable humans, but swapping control between four individual players made the games slow.


2V2 EXPERIMENT 2: DUO QUEUE: SHARED SPOILS
2v2_Duo_Queue_Mode_image_5_18_21_v1.png

HIT THE MARK… WE THINK!
I care about my duo’s lane
Competitive potential
Try out new decks by borrowing
Builds on & improves 1v1 skills
AREAS TO IMPROVE… WE THINK!
Teammate comms tools
Onboarding & clarity
Less-integrated teamwork
Downtime between games
Duo Queue takes 2v2 in a very different direction, with each player fighting their own game of nearly-typical 1v1 LoR. While there are a few twists, that means the mode benefits from most of the competitive balance and strategic depth of the standard game. We think Duo Queue could have long-term, evergreen potential… and it could even provide a foundation for a ranked 2v2 mode someday! We’ll see if players agree. Duo Queue hasn’t gone live yet, so we don’t have a definitive list of its strengths and weaknesses. I’ll tell you our best guesses below, but as always we won’t know until we try it with real players in just a few days!

long-divider.png

We’ve already learned a lot about how our game translates into a 2v2 world, and we think we’re on the right trail. Playing LoR with a friend or three is fun, in the way we hoped it would be when we started theorizing about social gameplay. There’s a bunch of work to do to find the right set of mechanics and player dynamics, but we’re optimistic that with the right recipe, LoR could be just as engaging (and competitive) with a friend as it is solo.

OUTRO
These are big challenges for a game that’s been built around 1v1 PVP competitive for so long,but we believe in the Labs formula to create the best PVE and 2v2 experiences possible. We’re committed to moving fast, trying ambitious stuff, and listening eagerly to input from you all as we charge forward. We can’t be sure exactly where we’ll land, but we’re excited for the destination and the journey.

I’ll end with a quick thank you to the talented developers on the Labs team who let me coax them onto this wild ride, and whose hard work and creativity fuels every single Lab we make. And a less-quick thank you to the players, for playing LoR, for playing Labs, and for joining us in shaping this game we’re building together. We’re lucky to have such an exceptional community traveling with us, and we hope you’ll love where we head next.
It’s been an incredible year of competition for Legends of Runeterra. With five Seasonal Tournaments, LoR Masters Europe, countless regional and community tournaments, and now a World Championship under our belt, it’s time to take a look back and categorize - what’s worked, what has room for opportunity & improvement, what to set aside and evaluate, and finally, look forward to where we go from here.

Let’s Talk About Worlds
It’s hard to believe that our first Seasonal Tournament was less than a year ago, and now we have a World Championship in the books. We believe Worlds accomplished its core mission: bringing together our best players from around the world for a high-stakes, high-skill tournament, and created a climactic moment in LoR competition history for players, casters, spectators, and our own team to look back on with pride.

Outside of that core mission, though, it’s clear we have a lot of work to do. We’ve seen a lot of passionate feedback around the communication and execution of the tournament’s rules, format, timing, general expectation-setting, and broadcasts, and we’ve taken it all to heart.

With all that being said, we’re currently evaluating what the peak competitive experience will look like for Legends of Runeterra moving forward. We’ve learned a lot from our first World Championship, and we believe we need to evolve the competitive experience overall. For the immediate future, Seasonal Tournament and Ranked performance will not directly factor into a championship tournament. If this changes at any point, we’ll clearly inform the competitive community to allow time to plan ahead.

We have a lot of learnings to sift through, so it might be a while until we have a solid update here, but look forward to more information in early 2022.

Thoughts on Ranked
Right now, ranked serves as our main competitive queue - it’s an always-available, accessible mode to jump into a quick 1v1 match with someone of similar skill. One of the goals with ranked is to provide a clear path to higher levels of competition, but there’s a clear disconnect between Ranked as a BO1 blind queue vs. a tournament setting, where you need a different type of proficiency in scouting, deckbuilding, as well as picks & bans.

That’s all being considered as we evaluate the competitive experience overall, but for now, we’re not planning on making any changes to Ranked.

Seasonal Tournaments, Gauntlets, & In-Client Competition
We’re happy with the level of competition that Seasonal Tournaments have been bringing to LoR, and running them online entirely through the client has made it accessible to a wide range of players around the world. Seasonal Tournaments will continue under this same structure for the remainder of the Beyond the Bandlewood set (encompassing all 4 expansions under the set, beginning with Beyond the Bandlewood).

However, as we move forward with evaluating the competitive experience for LoR, we’ll also be looking at how Seasonal Tournaments factor into that experience. That could mean a change in scope, format, cadence, and prizing to ensure it remains a sustainable feature that supports the growth and longevity of LoR for years to come. We’ll keep everyone updated on our plans for Seasonal Tournaments, Gauntlets and other forms of in-client competition as they come into shape.

GGs
Thanks so much to the players, community tournament organizers, casters, analysts, and co-streamers who have helped build Legends of Runeterra’s competitive community to what it is today, and a huge congratulations to all of our Seasonal Tournament and World Championship competitors. Nothing would be the same without you. We’re honored by your contributions, caught up in your hype, and while there’s more work to do, we’re excited for the road ahead with you all.
Udyr and the powerful spirits of the Freljord are making their journey to Legends of Runeterra in A Curious Journey on February 16! With his announcement, we wanted to take the opportunity to share a bit more background on his development and inspiration.

When we add new champions to Legends of Runeterra from League of Legends PC, our designers generally have their work cut out for them. It takes a lot of work to translate a well-established champion’s identity, narrative, appearance, and abilities to an entirely different format, but there’s a source of truth to work off of in LoL PC.

2122022_32Set5CUdyrContextArticle_Udyr_05FR013.jpg

However, Udyr is in the process of receiving a visual and gameplay update (VGU) in LoL PC that we knew wouldn’t be finished by the time A Curious Journey released. When that became apparent, our team was faced with a unique need and opportunity: we had to take a fresh look at the champion and figure out how we might be able to reimagine him in the period leading up to his VGU. We didn’t want to release a 1:1 version of him with the existing version of Udyr since he’s about to have a shiny new VGU, but due to development timelines it wasn’t possible to develop a version that’s going to be 1:1 with his post-VGU design, so we decided on somewhere in between the two.

2122022_32Set5CUdyrContextArticle_Udyr2_05FR013T4.jpg

As with his VGU, Legends of Runeterra’s version of Udyr focuses on his ties to the Freljord, but carries some additional inspiration from our established group of shamanistic Freljordian followers - you’ll see a lot of blue in Udyr decks.

2122022_32Set5CUdyrContextArticle_01FR040_Rimetusk-Shaman.jpg

2122022_32Set5CUdyrContextArticle_FRELJORD_UNIT_Ursine-Spiritwalker.jpg

His iconic stance changes are preserved in his Legends of Runeterra iteration, but they also have an identity of their own here. While his LoL PC VGU has nods to Freljordian demigods, in Legends of Runeterra we see him drawing strength from the various animals that make their home in the frozen tundra - some of which you might recognize from earlier expansions!

2122022_32Set5CUdyrContextArticle_01FR026_Alpha-Wildclaw.jpg

We’re excited to finally be able to share this look at Udyr in Legends of Runeterra, and we hope you’ll enjoy stance dancing and clawing your way through the competition when he launches in the A Curious Journey expansion on February 16!
Tl;dr - Starting in patch 3.2.0, we’re beginning to sunset Expeditions by removing the weekly cap on fully-rewarded runs, which also means Free Play is no longer available due to the lack of a weekly cap. Expedition Tokens are also being removed from the Weekly Vault and the new player 7-day login bonus. In May, with the release of patch 3.8.0, Expeditions will no longer be accessible, so be sure to spend your remaining Expedition Tokens before then.

We designed Expeditions as Legends of Runeterra’s take on a draft-based PvP experience; as a way to experiment with new strategies on the fly with a less-predictable card pool.

We were thrilled to see that some players ended up loving Expeditions, but the player count was lower than we had hoped for. As the game has continued to evolve, other modes have ended up competing for the same type of feeling that Expeditions offers, with greater success. The Path of Champions competes with Expeditions to provide a similar draft-like experience, and currently accounts for a majority of the total play hours spent in LoR, while Ranked PvP provides a competitive landscape for players to flex their skill & creativity in deckbuilding.

We still think there’s room in Legends of Runeterra for a competitive draft experience, but it’s become clear that Expeditions isn’t it. So as of patch 3.8.0 in May, we’re removing Expeditions to make room for the resources and creative space we need so that we can reimagine a truly compelling competitive draft experience in the future. Right now though, our resources are focused in other areas like The Path of Champions & future expansions, so we likely won’t have another update on this until next year.

Until then, there’s still time to get more Expeditions runs in before the mode’s removal. Draft buckets are being added for the new champions added in A Curious Journey, and starting in patch 3.2.0 on February 16, we’re removing the weekly cap on fully-rewarded runs so you can spend any Expedition Tokens you’ve been holding on to, or you can continue to enter as many times as you’d like using Shards or Coins. Once patch 3.8.0 goes live, Expeditions will no longer be accessible, and Expedition Tokens will no longer be usable or transferable for other in-game items or currency, so be sure to use them all before then.

Whether you went 7-7, 0-0, or anything in between, we want to thank everyone who enjoyed Expeditions. It might be a while as we go back to the drawing board, but we’ll keep you all updated on our plans for a draft PvP experience as they come into shape.
It’s a big year ahead for Legends of Runeterra! Before getting into the details of our early 2022 roadmap, we’d highly recommend checking out the video above to get a look behind the curtain at just a few of the updates coming this year.

LoR_6A2022_2022-RoadmapGraphic_1920X1080_PCruz_V002.jpg

The Path of Champions 2.0, Runeterra Champions, Worlds 2022, free Arcane Jinx & Vi skins, quality of life updates to existing skins, Pulsefire, highly-requested reworks to older champions, and more! With the exception of Worlds 2022, which is coming later this year, you can expect all that in just the first half of 2022. We won’t be going over every single item here, but let’s dive into the details of some of the bigger topics at hand.

Our Next Expansion Arrives in May!

First, let’s address timelines - A Curious Journey has an extended season leading up to the release of our next expansion in May. We had originally planned to follow the same 2-month cadence for expansion releases, which would have placed it in April, but it became apparent that we needed a bit more development time for everything coming in the next expansion. We’re releasing quite a bit more new content & experimental gameplay systems than past expansions, so we’re targeting May for that release. We’ll keep everyone informed of our progress and share more details as we get closer to the expansion!

The Path of Champions 2.0

Champion_Overview_TPOC_JPG.jpg

When we released The Path of Champions last November, we were confident we were shipping something that players would enjoy, but we were blown away by the scale of the mode’s popularity. Since its release, players have been consistently spending more time in The Path of Champions than all other game modes combined. What we did know, however, was that this was just the start of our journey into PvE, and we know we can do so much more with the experience.

We’re colloquially referring to this update as The Path of Champions 2.0: more adventures that tell new stories, a large-scale progression revamp, as well as new regions, relics, and more! Look forward to more information about The Path of Champions 2.0 as we head towards May.

Expansions Over Sets

Timeline-Graph.jpg

With this next expansion, we’re changing the definition of “expansions” in Legends of Runeterra.

We’re no longer grouping releases by “sets” as we did for previous releases - i.e. Call of the Mountain, Empires of the Ascended, and Beyond the Bandlewood were all “sets” broken into 3 “expansion” releases revolving primarily around the newest region added to the game.

Moving forward, expansions are now standalone releases that expand content for both PvP & PvE. This approach allows more freedom to explore adding new champions & storyful PvE adventures on a more regular basis. We love our Yordles, but it’ll be nice to be able to explore more of Runeterra as a whole with each expansion.

Runeterra Champions

Jhin_1920x1080_Header.jpg

Speaking of Runeterra, you just got a sneak peek at Jhin, our first Runeterra champion. Rather than being tied to a single region, Runeterra champions tend to wander around the world, or have conflicting allegiances across several regions. Adding one to your deck completely alters your deck-building rules. For example, adding Jhin to your deck allows you to add cards with skills from all other regions. Runeterra champions bring a ton of potential for creative decks that have never been seen before, and we’re excited to see what players do with them!

April Champion Adjustments

04FR015_Fabled_Poro_JPG.jpg

While we’re excited for our next expansions, we haven’t forgotten about our existing roster. We’re taking a look at some champions who could use some attention to make their game plans smoother to execute and bring them up to a more competitive level.

Events & Cosmetic Improvements

Arcane_Vi_JPG.jpg

Lastly, over the past year we’ve gotten a lot of great feedback from players who have wanted to see more, and higher-quality offerings from events and cosmetics, including champion skins. Additionally, we’ll be granting all players free Arcane Jinx & Vi skins for Legends of Runeterra’s second anniversary in April.

Miss_Fortune_Arcade_Make_it_Rain_Spell.png

You may have noticed that Arcade Anivia & Arcade Miss Fortune have new skins for their champion spells. In April, we’re going back to all previously-released Epic-tier champion skins and giving them the same treatment. We’ll also be looking for additional ways to continue improving our champion skin features in the future, so keep the feedback coming!

For events, much like with the Final Boss Veigar boss battles in the Arcade Battle Event, we’re going to continue exploring ways to innovate and improve events moving forward. Starting with the Pulsefire Event, you’ll also see more free reward nodes on the Event Pass than in previous passes to provide more ways to improve your collection - whether you choose to buy the Premium Event Pass or not.

We’re excited to continue exploring new ways for Legends of Runeterra to level up in the coming year. Stay tuned for more information about The Path of Champions 2.0, our next expansion, and so much more in the coming weeks and months!
Hey Players - I’m Dave Guskin and I have been on the LoR team since 2018, previously serving as Game Director and Design Director. Recently, I’ve moved into the Executive Producer role for LoR and we are in the midst of some changes with the game that we wanted to get you up to speed on.

The LoR team has regularly explored new game-play options and settings, leading to a number of insights into what you, the players, enjoy most. One of the things we’ve learned is that while The Path of Champions mode currently provides a fun and solid experience, it’s going to require significant investment to expand it to fully become what we envisioned.

So after a lot of conversations and reflection, we’ve decided that rather than continuing to split the game’s focus between core PvP gameplay and The Path of Champions game mode, we want to focus on hyper serving our core PvP player base. This will include more consistent & well-tuned card updates, and exciting new expansions that we hope you all will enjoy. At its core, LoR is a CCG with a passionate community and PvP is where we believe our team can best serve players and deliver an experience that you all will continue to enjoy. The Path of Champions game mode will remain playable but will receive fewer updates for now.

At the same time that we are refocusing on PvP and slowing down our efforts on the Path of Champions game mode, Riot has so many projects that could benefit from all we have learned with you in our experiments so far. Without any spoilers I can say that we’re planning to share the love by redeploying a few of our game developers who have learned a lot from you to support some other projects around Riot, some of which are already live and playable, and some of which are in our R&D pipeline which I know you’re excited to get your hands on. So if you are one of our players who loves LoR, and especially the Path of Champions, you can look forward to seeing glimmers of LoR’s influence in other games from Riot soon.

Though we are proud of some of the critical acclaim we’ve received since launch, what gives us the most pride is how committed our players are to this community we have built together. Riot is also committed to continuing to support our game and our community. This pivot will allow us to serve the core LoR players and hyper-focus on our core audience, while also turbocharging other great games from Riot by lending a few talented LoR devs to their awesome teams.

We are excited about what the future holds for LoR and what that means for you, our players. The competitiveness of the game, our engagement with the community, and our frequent updates are the heartbeat of LoR, and those things will remain intact so we can build upon them as we work on further defining our future vision.

We’ll be back by the end of the summer to give an updated look at our new focused roadmap, and we’re excited to see how you like Worldwalker & future expansions in the meantime.

Finally, I want to thank JJ and Brett for their support in this new role. I can’t wait to see what they do next here at Riot!

Dave

Q: Now that there are 7 maps in the rotation, will you be adding a map pick/ban system?

This is not something we're currently planning for regular Competitive queue play, because at this time we really want to reinforce learning how to play all maps (instead of always avoiding specific ones). That being said, we do believe a map pick/ban system is worth exploring in an environment fit for complex team strategizing like our planned tournament mode. It's still a work-in-progress, but we see its potential in a space where teams will have planned plays and Agent compositions for various maps—or maybe they just want to avoid yay's Chamber on Bind.

—Jon Walker, Competitive Designer

Q: Are you still working on a Gifting system?

We are definitely as excited about this idea as we were the first time we talked about it—initially targeting gifting by the end of 2020. That being said, the work behind a potential system is currently in our backlog mostly due to prioritizing other in-game changes, as well as exploring more comprehensive ways to bring it to VALORANT. No timeline as of today.

—Stephen Kraman, Product Manager

Q: Any updates on a possible in-game replay system?

Shortly after VALORANT’s launch we told you we were very much interested in exploring the feasibility of an in-game replay system to discover the best possible execution given a wide range of potential uses. The shortest answer today is that there is no plan for a player-facing version of a replay system, as of now.

We know this is a frequently requested feature from all types of players. Our exploration is continuous against developing our other VALORANT features (like new ways to track and reward Agent progress, player behavior tools, different ways to collect in-game items)—all to measure what makes the most sense to prioritize based on what serves the most players and has the most long term impact on game health.More directly, this exploration has helped us discover how we might use some of what we've learned to help improve observing in matches as well as evolving our live esports broadcasts.

—Steven Eldredge, Game Production

Q: How come I report this clearly AFK player and never get reporter feedback?

Currently, reporter feedback only works when the reason why a player was punished is due to text/voice toxicity. For example, if you report a player for AFK-ing, and they get punished, you won’t receive a penalty message. We're working on this now! No exact date to share, but we’ll fix this so that if you report someone and they get punished, you will always receive a message. That does mean that as a result of this issue, there are cases where you may not have received a message that a player you reported was punished, even though the punishment may have actually happened.

But please, please keep the reports coming!

—Social & Player Dynamics team

Q: Thoughts on alternating skins when on attack or defense?

We've seen an appetite for getting additional use out of your current collection, so we're actually already exploring the feasibility of an idea like this. There are no commitments to share today and here is why. The team needs to first understand/test the limits of performance and memory so that you don't see any negative impacts in and out of the game. We would also need to consider making any potential updates to the collections page to properly showcase/support this in the current collections menu. Finally, among some other unknowns, are there already other concepts in progress that may compete with this idea in some way.

—Sean Marino, Art Lead, and Preeti Khanolkar, Lead Producer, Cosmetics

Q: Arcane was amazing—will we see a VALORANT Netflix series?

Arcane was amazing! We'd be lying if we claimed not to have hopes and dreams of one day delivering something of that stature in the VALORANT Universe but wow, our LoL cousins set an insanely high bar with the series!

From the outset, we set out to create an expansive universe with depth of characters to support any potential future experiences that we believe players would want, including premium entertainment.

BUT…don't expect anything too soon. We’re going to remain hyper-focused on the game for quite some time and we have plenty we still want to do to keep expanding the universe in support of VALORANT the game.
Will you make it so we can hide account levels?

A

We’ve seen the feedback on account levels sometimes used as fuel to be toxic to another player (be it their rank-to-level ratio, or something else). We hear you and we're working on it right now (along with some other minor improvements to Account Leveling). It'll take a couple of patches to wrap development and release the change, but we intend that those of you who don't wish to share your Account Level can obscure it.

—Naoise Creaven, Senior Producer

Q

I’m usually Gold, but this Episode I’m Silver. When I look at ranked population websites it seems like a lot of people are Silver, why are people lower rank in this Episode?

A

A good place to start is to look at the changes made in Episode 3 intended to refine our matchmaker. These changes have improved match fairness, and we’ve seen fairly positive data results from them. Unfortunately, these same changes also affected everyone's MMR. To be clear, this change hit all of you the same, so everyone's actual MMR number went down by a small percent.

Now that we have gathered enough data, we can comfortably say our lower ranks have too many people in them, and our higher ranks not enough. This is what we call Ranked Distribution: the population of players in each rank. Since your rank is tied to your MMR, this led to the whole playerbase situated in a rank lower than intended (by a small amount).

Lots of websites track this data, so we are just going to show you what our current ranked distribution looks like in Act 1 in the next image (remember, Radiant is always top 500, so it is not shown here):

08272021-AskVal_August_2021_Graph_1-inline.jpg

Our target now is to adjust the distribution so as to reduce the amount of players in Silver, and move everyone up to the ranks they belong. Below is our goal for ranked distribution in Act 2:

08272021-AskVal_August_2021_Graph_2-inline.jpg

To reiterate, the above data is our goal for ranked distribution. But because the community is always shifting in skill slightly, it may not be exact. This is a complex subject, if there is anything to take away from this post it’s that it should be a little easier to climb a few ranks in Episode 3 Act II. See you out there!

—Jon Walker, Competitive Designer

Q

Will you ever release skins again via the rotating shop?

[Editor’s Note: This answer originally appeared via Joe Lee’s Twitter, which you can follow here.]

A

There's always a lot of discussion around VALORANT's rotating shop but we made a key strategy change about a year ago when we released Sakura in the rotating store for the first time. Many of you loved the aesthetic and were rabid to acquire it.

We originally planned to release almost half of our skins via the rotating shop, but seeing the hype around Sakura we wanted to make sure that all of you had access to a skin line when it was released. So, we turned all of our rotating releases into Featured releases after that.

Yes, the rotating store still exists but all of you have equal access to new skins at the launch window (when demand for that skin is at its highest).

Finally, this isn't to say that we will never have skin lines that are introduced exclusively in the rotating store. There are some exciting ways in which it could make sense for a skin line to be released that way, but those will be few and far between.
What are you doing about performance? Why is my Frames Per Second (FPS) unstable sometimes?

A

VALORANT has an entire team dedicated to maintaining and improving the performance of the game. In VALORANT, lower spec machines tend to be GPU bound (rendering is the bottleneck for your FPS), whereas mid to high spec machines tend to be CPU bound. Because many of you are CPU bound, adjusting graphics settings may not help performance because the CPU is limiting FPS, not the GPU.

Maintaining performance involves setting budgets (data, not finances) for new content that is added to the game, such as maps, characters, and modes—as well as monitoring client and server performance internally across a variety of specs prior to a patch, and externally once a patch is released. This allows us to either catch an issue before release or, in the worst case, track down issues that you are experiencing in the live game.

Currently, we are focused on improving CPU performance. This can be done by either improving baseline performance, which results in an average higher FPS or by removing hitches, which will reduce how much FPS drops when there is a more expensive workload.

We’ve identified issues with Viper and Astra and will be working on optimizations to their abilities over the next few patches. We will be doing a pass on performance for all Agent abilities over the coming months. The overall goal is to increase the lowest FPS you see regardless of what is going on in a match. We are also working on VALORANT’s ability to make use of multithreading to better leverage modern CPUs.

FPS can seem unstable at times because of how rounds play out. Early parts of the round are spent gathering information and watching fights between a fewer number of players. Later in the round when players are attacking or retaking a site, we tend to see many bodies fighting each other and increased ability usage, all of which can decrease FPS.

Additionally, performance can vary between modes. For example, performance on the Shooting Range is often high because there is only one player being simulated. Deathmatch can see worse performance than the standard Unrated/Competitive modes because there are more players in Deathmatch and most of the game is spent fighting each other.

If there’s one take away for you it’s this: Whether you’re on the latest hardware or VALORANT’s min spec, we want all of you to be able to focus on playing the game and not fighting performance.

—Brian Fischer, Performance Engineer

Q

When’s 5-stack coming back?

A

We’ve heard the feedback, and we agree that VALORANT is at its best when played in a group. We have two ways we are thinking about this space:

How can we enable five-stacks, with wide ranges of skill, to compete in ranked?
How can we create a high-stakes competitive experience for teams?
When thinking about the first question, we have significant concerns regarding splitting queues. We don’t believe splitting the queue—or doing a flex queue—is the best solution for VALORANT. We fear that one ranked queue would become “The Real Ranked Queue” and the other queue becomes less prestigious.

Our other concern is match fairness. By having one ranked queue, we have a bigger pool of players lowering queue times and enabling stricter matchmaking. So while designing for this issue, we want to make sure whatever solution we go with maintains competitive integrity.

For the second question, we are excited to announce…. Oh hey, Hiko posted a video with ranked feedback. Yeah, I need to go watch this. Sorry! I can tell you more at the beginning of Episode 3, as it’s a little early to talk about what we are doing to solve that issue.

—Jon Walker, Competitive Designer

Q

Why can’t you kill the crabs on Breeze? (via Freddiepon)

A

The crabs on Breeze have been living and breeding near some Radianite fallout and have likely developed fortified exoskeletons. We advise against any crab battles, unless you’re prepared to lose an eye. Doesn't matter much anyway, within a few years time they’ll probably take over the island. But I'm no crab expert.
My matches sometimes feel like a coin flip. I feel like I go against players that don't belong in my rank, are smurfs common?

A

Smurfs and Smurfettes, while relatively small in number, are absolutely real and are frustrating to play against. We’ve been collecting and incorporating feedback from all our channels, and have since spun up an investigation into the current state of smurfing in VALORANT.

Because we’re currently deep in this investigation, there is no actionable plan to share just yet. However, we want to at the very least provide insight into the fundamental questions our team is actively tackling:


How do we identify smurf in our systems, and how often are players running into them?
Why do players smurf?
Is there a need, that isn’t being met, that is forcing players to smurf?
What changes do we need to make in order to combat smurfing?

For those that encounter smurfs, we know it’s tough to stomach that there’s no immediate solution today, but we have to make sure that we are approaching this complex space in the right way without screwing up other systems. We want to understand exactly what your needs are and how we can better serve you all!

For example, we’ve noticed that a big chunk of smurfs do so with no malicious intent—they’re trying to play competitively with friends outside of their rank. Whereas, there may still be a minority who create smurf accounts with bad intent.

Combating smurfing is not only about punishment, it’s also about making VALORANT more accessible so those without bad intentions no longer feel the need to smurf. Once we are at a point where we feel comfortable with the solution we have in place and feel like we have mitigated these reasons, that’s when we will be able to put a foot down on the remaining folks—potentially booting them from our game.

We want to emphasize that this is one of the competitive team’s primary focuses at the moment, and although we are in the investigation phase, and it will take us some time to act on our findings, know that we are listening and agree that this is a problem worthy of heavy resources.

Hey, while we’re here, it’s probably good to note that although playing against players who appear to be “boosted” can be a tilting experience, our findings show that smurfing isn’t actually as prevalent as some of the community might have you believe. Yes, sometimes you may have just happened to stumble across someone who was simply having a really good game. To be clear, we are not denying or diminishing the severity of the smurfing problem space and are fully committed to working with you all on combating it. But next time you see a player doing really well, remember that maybe, just maybe, they’re simply poppin’ off.

—Jon Walker, Competitive Designer, and Sara Dadafshar, Producer

Q

Any updates on the replay system?

A

Talks are ongoing with multiple internal teams interested in a VALORANT replay system. No, we can’t share any updates as of now, but know that these early discussions are in earnest and we should have an update for you all soon™ :^)
Can you explain the reasoning behind the regional slot distribution for Masters: Reykjavik?

A

One of our biggest goals for 2020 was to launch international events as quickly as possible. As planning was going on for the League of Legends Mid-Season Invitational, we were presented with an opportunity to utilize that event’s infrastructure to execute an international 10-team VALORANT LAN earlier than anticipated. With this team limit, our first priority was to make sure each of our seven VALORANT regions was represented at our first global event.

Subsequently, we had to make some tough decisions with the remaining three slots. As we were trying to make these decisions, we looked at each region’s playerbase, viewership, esports infrastructure, and team participation within regional VCT tournaments; criteria that EMEA, North America, and Brazil all scored especially high on. Ultimately, we chose to grant an additional slot to each of those regions to optimize for regional diversity at the first international event. We think this will lead to a more exciting tournament, but we may make changes to future slot allocations based on learnings from Reykjavik.

We’re also really excited about the future of LATAM, JP, KR, and SEA. As our events grow, you'll see more teams from those regions at future international events. We think the future is bright in all of our regions and we’re looking forward to having bigger international events with even more regional diversity.

-     Alex Francois, Global Head of Competitive Operations for VALORANT Esports

Q

How are casters for regional broadcasts selected? Who can cast in which region?

A

This year there has been a lot of discussion on how regional broadcasts select their casters, and whether casters from one region could cast VCT matches of another region.

Early on in VALORANT Esports, some broadcast teams experimented with utilizing casters from regions that were geographically distant from the participating players and production hubs. This led to a large variance of audio delays, as signals travelled back and forth across the Atlantic Ocean, and then to distributed broadcast teams.

These delays were especially pronounced during live matches which involved casters hailing from different continents. For regional broadcasts, there are technical limitations that impact broadcast quality when using casters who are very geographically distant from each other and Riot’s broadcast teams.

After First Strike, to optimize for the best available broadcast quality, we opted to build VCT shows around casters that were geographically close to the competition and broadcast team. For Masters: Reykjavik, we are planning on producing a unified English broadcast that will feature representation from multiple regions. This is a similar approach to League of Legends, where we utilize casters that are near to each other. 

-     Stefan Richardson, Senior Manager of Global Broadcasts at Riot Games

Q

What is the philosophy behind the Masters points structure for this year?

A

When determining how teams would qualify into Champions this year, we had one main goal - make it the most competitive tournament possible. To do that, we needed to weigh a variety of factors. First, we wanted to ensure that we were rewarding teams who have shown consistent results throughout the year. However, we also wanted to ensure that we were valuing the recency of results - finishes closer in time to Champions are likely a better indicator of success than finishes months earlier. Finally, we considered the fact that as we move to international competition, the difficulty of winning Masters grows.

This all resulted in our existing Masters points structure. We believe that the balance of lower points at the Regional Masters events, followed by an increase in available points heading into Masters: Reykjavík, and an additional increase in points heading into Stage 3 Challengers (along with the automatic qualification into Champions for the winning team) will help us meet our goals.

It's important to remember that Championship Points will also count towards seeding at the Last Chance Qualifiers, pan-regional tournaments that will select the final teams for Champions, not just for qualification into Champions itself.

For those of you who want to read more, we recently published a detailed breakdown on the 2021 VCT that offers more specific details.

Ask_VAL_Esports_April_Current_Point_StandingsV2_04152021.jpg

-     Alex Francois, Global Head of Competitive Operations for VALORANT Esports

Q

Will regions who are currently not participating in official VALORANT Champions Tour events be able to qualify for Champions?

A

As we welcome new players into VALORANT, we want to expand competitive opportunities in their regions. Tournament circuits like Strike Arabia, that while not part of the VCT, will allow for players in the Middle East and North Africa to participate in the EMEA Last Chance Qualifier (and have a path towards Champions). We want to take a similar approach with other new regions, leading to larger, more competitive, and more inclusive LCQs later this year. 

-     Kasra Jafroodi, Global Strategy Lead for VALORANT Esports

Q

When are coaching slots coming to VAL?

A

It’s official, coaching slots are coming in patch 2.08! As an esport, we continue to be excited at the prospect of coaches playing a larger role in matches and plan to provide more analytical tools in the future.

Overall, we see the coach and player relationship as an important dynamic in our esport. We have some ideas on where we want to take this and will be talking with players (specifically In-Game Leaders) and Coaches in the near future to solidify our plans. 

What you’ll see in 2.08 is the basic foundation of this feature and something we plan to continuously innovate on. We look forward to evolving coaching and its supporting features with help from VCT participants.
What is your approach when you see abilities not being used as intended? 

A

We've seen a lot of Agent abilities used in unintended ways by players, sometimes with awesome outcomes and sometimes in ways that we've needed to address. Sage's Barrier Orb is a fantastic example—we've seen countless creative boosts, sideways tube walls, and ability combos that we wouldn't have expected. On the flip side, we've seen floating walls creating one-ways, single wall segments hovering over the Split B bomb site, and more Omen teleport bug combos than I'd like to remember.

We walk a pretty constant line between the sandbox nature of abilities that keeps each game exciting, and trying to determine if newly discovered interactions are enriching or breaking the tactical game we've promised. VALORANT is definitely a game that we're building and exploring hand-and-hand with our community. We know you all approach each match with creativity, and the best thing we can do is keep an open dialogue about what's discovered.

—Jay Watford, Lead Character Designer

Q 

Can you add the ability to change settings during Agent selection? 

A

We agree, this should be doable and we'll add it to our backlog. To be frank though, it's behind some much more urgent priorities on our list. We'll keep you updated.

—Naoise Creaven, Senior Producer

Q 

Did HRTF lower the volume or the ability to hear the footsteps? It seems far away steps are now harder to hear but you can pinpoint them easier. 

A



HRTF does not affect attenuations (volume change over distance) or occlusion (filtering change based on objects between the emitter and the listener). Adjusting to HRTF does take time and practice.
I get less Ranked Rating per win and more per loss, and it feels like the system is holding me down. Why is that?

A

Buckle up, this answer will take you on the wrinkle brain highway. We are going to get a little in the weeds, and have to explain how our ranked system functions in order to answer this!

VALORANT MMR AND WHY IT’S NOT THE SAME AS RANK RATING (RR)
VALORANT uses a Match Making Rating (MMR) system to target your performance skill level. MMR is a giant ladder, consisting of all players. If you win, you climb up and push others down. Alternatively if you lose, you get pushed down by others. No two players can tie, or take up the same spot on the ladder. This is the core concept for most matchmaking systems, and the math that determines how fast you climb up (or push others down) is the hard part. 

MMR is a fairly fluid system that can potentially change substantially game to game. We’ve kept this slightly decoupled from your visible rank and RR so we can make sure that you don’t experience wild swings in your rank or instantly demote after a promotion.

That’s your base understanding of MMR, so now let’s explain how that relates to your Ranked Rating gains and losses.

To start, we need to reiterate that your Rank is separate from your MMR. You will never see your MMR—it’s what we use to create fair matches. When you queue into ranked for the first time, or after an Episode reset, we have an idea of where your “Rank” belongs because we rely on your MMR as a guideline. Unfortunately we only have an “idea,” so we place you on the low end of where we think you belong.

CONVERGENCE
We place you on the low end mainly to reach what’s known as “convergence.” We believe it’s better to place you on the lower end of our rank estimate, and then test whether that is actually low by asking you to prove you belong at the higher rank. You pass, and your Rank Rating (RR) will reflect this. You’ll see more RR per win, and less per loss—all on the way toward the high end of the Rank you are being “tested” for. Voilà! You are now “converging” to your MMR. 

Eventually your Rank will converge very close to your MMR (unless of course, you begin to lose, then your MMR will begin to drop). When this happens you will get a relatively even amount of RR per win/loss. Now that you’ve reached your MMR, you’ll need to improve in skill and win against your opponents more than you lose in order to climb above our original estimates. When you are at your MMR, we’ve most often seen you with a 50% win rate. Even with a 50% win rate, you could go on a long winstreak and promote to a rank above your MMR.

Just because a player has a good winstreak, or a few good games, does not change the fact they are still only maintaining a 50% win rate and now have promoted above their MMR. This, along with demotion protection, will sometimes lead to players sitting one rank above their MMR.

PROTECTING COMPETITIVE INTEGRITY
If you do end up with a rank above your MMR, the system will try to push you back to your intended rank—this is what losing more RR on a loss, than gaining on a win, looks like. This is something you can fix by winning more matches than the players above you who are around your current MMR. This was an issue seen even by top players on the leaderboard. When there are very few players ahead of you it can become very difficult to climb. If your MMR isn’t truly above a player ahead of you, the system does not want you to take their leaderboard spot. 

We believe the integrity of Competitive play would be compromised if we let those on the leaderboard “out grind” their MMR and pass someone they don’t truly belong in front of. So all players are held to the same standards: In order to climb you must prove you are better than those above you. So, if you are winning slightly over half your games and have 200 wins, but another player is winning the vast majority of their games but only has 100 wins, that player with 100 wins will likely sit higher on the leaderboard because of their MMR.

Ranked is about finding your true skill and we will hold you accountable to the skill level you are playing. If you truly outperform your opponents and win more than you lose, you will climb that ladder and increase your MMR. Again, when you raise your MMR, you’ll then increase your RR gains and open the door for an easier climb!

031821_AskVALArticle_ValCompet.jpg

TL;DR
If your MMR is higher than your rank, you’ll gain more RR on wins than you lose on losses
If your MMR is even with your rank, you’ll gain and lose closer amounts of RR for wins and losses
If your MMR is lower than your rank, you’ll gain less RR on wins and lose more on losses
Increase your MMR by outperforming your opponents and winning more consistently!

THE END, WE SWEAR
Whew, that was long. MMR and Ranked systems are necessarily complex given the sheer amount of skill and performances it must handle. This is just a small example of the calculation, and there are lots of reasons why we chose to go this direction with ranked currently. 

That being said, we know it can feel frustrating to lose more RR then you are gaining. We are investigating solutions to prevent your Rank from pulling well ahead of your MMR, as well as trying to figure out if we can make it feel better when it occurs. Due to issues like these, you may see minor math tweaks to RR gains in future Acts. We are also always listening and will continue to communicate our changes in patch notes and social, but hopefully not in another Ask VALORANT.
Can you explain the reason for the planned Rank Rating penalty for queue dodge? Sometimes I have real good reasons to dodge and I don't think I should lose RR.

A

We understand a Ranked Rating deduction—no matter how small—can feel like a painful penalty, so we want to be extremely clear with how this system works and why. First thing’s first: these changes target players who repeatedly queue dodge, and will have minimal impact on players who only queue dodge occasionally. We hope having a small (3-point) rank rating deduction provides additional deterrence for players who frequently dodge—without being too punishing for the person who rarely dodges. We've also kept it quick to earn back your rank rating, while not impacting your MMR with these penalties. However, repeated queue dodges will add up, and repeat queue dodgers will feel the intended pains of this.

For reference, our data says that more than 50% of dodges are caused by less than 2% of players, and the vast majority of players very rarely queue dodge, if at all. Targeting those repeat offenders should have a massive impact on how frequently you encounter queue dodges in your own games.

All that said, we recognize that queue dodging is an important tool to avoid really painful situations (like toxic teammates). And even if most queue dodges are caused by a small group of people trying to manipulate their competitive experience, we don’t want to take that safety net away from you. That’s why our systems have high forgiveness for infrequent offenders.

A final note: we will be watching the impact of these changes closely when we ship them (targeted for patch 2.05). If we missed the mark—whether we don’t reduce queue dodging enough, or we punish our more well-intentioned players too harshly—we’ll make adjustments to the system. Simple as that. And we’ll keep you updated with any changes.

—Jon Walker, Competitive Designer, -Ian Fielding, Producer, and Lea Hughes, Strategic Advisor



Q

When are devs going to make knife hit detection system more accurate? Escalation revealed some of its shortcomings.

A

Our knife is a bit of a meme right now. It’s serving the purpose of either psychological-driven kills on unaware opponents or a last resort when out of ammo—but it's rarely a decent (or reliable) choice to use in any other situation.

The hitbox is static, unintuitive, and only active for a very brief period of time. This leads to frustration and confusion when combined with visuals that imply the knife does damage during the entire slash motion. These are things we'd like to improve, but other weapon balance issues generally take priority over this work because the knife isn't intended to be a critical part of our combat model. We don’t think it should ever be the best choice in a fight, but we would like to make it feel better to use by improving its reliability and hit satisfaction, as well as allowing it to be a viable (but not necessary) weapon choice in some situations.

For Escalation, we were hoping to take a pass on the knife to give the knife level an extra "oomph,” but we ran out of time and to do so would have significantly delayed the mode. So, we shipped "BIG KNIFE" instead, hoping that a speed/jump boost, a longer range, and more damage would make that level at least bearable if not good. We hope to come back in the future and give the knife a closer look and the love it deserves—we just need to figure out when it makes the most sense.
Last year, you mentioned looking into Agent-specific keybinds. Do you have any updates?

A

While we have no specific timing to give you today, believe us that this has not dropped off our long list of priorities for this year. Our hope is to find a version of this around Episode 3.

Q

Are you considering extending the period for a match remake vote?

A

We recognize there are some problems with the remake system and are actively looking at improvements. We were relatively strict in our initial approach to ensure competitive integrity and avoid any matchmaking abuse, but agree that this has limited the feature’s usefulness. 

Extending the available window, automating the remake function in particularly fast AFK cases, and creating clarity on when a remake is being initiated versus a surrender, are all pieces that we’re considering. We still want to maintain competitive integrity as our number one priority, so our approach will reflect that. We’re hoping to have some changes on this soon and will give you more updates when we can.

Q

Would you consider reducing the Agent selection time for Spike Rush? A short mode feels like it should have a short start time.

A

We saw this discussion bubble up in some places, but to put it plainly, we're happy with player satisfaction and play time for Spike Rush, so we’re going to leave the Agent select time as is, for now. FWIW, a shorter Agent select window might result in significantly more dodges, which may (at a macro scale) actually increase the length of the mode for all of you. Also worth noting that the current time is to help account for different load-in times per player.
Last month, you mentioned you’re working on decreasing the running+shooting accuracy, can you update us on the progress or what you are looking to adjust?

A

We have some changes planned for Patch 2.02 that should help address sentiment on running accuracy with rifles. Keep in mind, we're making sure not to change too many systems at once to ensure that shooting doesn't feel so dramatically different that you’ll have to relearn habits. As always, we'll keep an eye on the change and will continue to adjust as necessary.

Q

At the start of the Act, it seems like I can rank higher and faster with my alternate accounts, whereas I’m stuck in the much lower ranks for longer with my main account. Is the new ranked system working as intended?

A

We saw this weird pattern developing soon after launch and made changes to help solve this with Patch 2.01. It should actually be optimal now for the highest ranked players to use their main account instead of their alternate due to the now reduced queue times—and their higher MMR will actually help them earn rank rating faster.

We will also be increasing the effectiveness of convergence, expected to hit in one of the next patches. This will make it so previous season Immortal+ players, that still have a high MMR, will start to earn more Ranked Rating per win and less per loss then their lower MMR counterparts. Ultimately they will climb the leaderboard faster, and make it so that the most effective way to climb the leaderboard is to have skill and high MMR. This will affect all ranks, so if you really are hardstuck Silver—but your MMR says you should be Gold or Plat—you will get there quicker.

Unfortunately, one week under the slightly wonky Patch 2.0 system was enough time for top players to rally behind the effort to rely on their alternate accounts for quicker rank. When people played on an alt, they may have been finding matches quicker and ranked up faster. Now, in the long run, their alt will be at a lower MMR and earn less ranked rating per win then they would have if they were on their main account (with higher MMR).

That being said, we know there are a few recent Competitive changes around Episode and Act starts that some of you are unhappy about. We’re looking at adjusting how we place you at the start of a new Act and how quickly leaderboards become available. We’ll also have a more detailed follow up to share ahead of Episode 2 Act II.
The ranking system feels harsh right now, it seems hard to climb out of lower ranks and easy to derank. What are you doing to address this?

A

We hear you on this, too often one bad day of play can result in significant rank loss and a good day doesn’t help you climb as much as you’d like. Our rank distribution bands are unforgiving and we have limited protection against rank demotion. We’ve been feeling this ourselves, and we’ve made some changes to address this with Patch 1.14, and more substantive changes will follow at the start of the year with the launch of Episode 2.

To be specific with Patch 1.14’s updates, we updated our rank distribution to make it easier to climb out of the lower ranks, significantly reducing the number of players in Iron and increasing the players at Bronze through Diamond ranks (Immortal+ will stay roughly the same). With patch 2.0 (early January), we’re going to add increased protection for rank demotions, while giving you some initial buffer room after you gain ranks. There are also going to be a TON more changes to the rank system with Episode 2, and we’ll have more info on that to come in early January next year.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

I know we only get one surrender vote per half, but in the case of a disconnect after the first vote, can we get an extra surrender attempt?

A

While we don't see an issue outright with getting a sort of buffer between votes rather than just the one-and-done, we're going to be frank and say this is not at the top of our to-do list for now (AFK, Smurf, etc are hoarding that spot). We'll review and see if this makes sense, but no promises just yet.

—Sara Dadafshar, Producer

Q

Is there any way to hide my crosshair from anyone observing me? I get harassed for my crosshair in almost every game, and it's really putting me off from playing.

A

Sorry to hear you're getting harassed over crosshair choice. We allow players to spectate other crosshairs so they can get inspiration for their own, but I can definitely see how the consistent comments could become annoying. I think being able to hide your crosshair is a great idea— we'll try to fit it into our future plans and keep you posted on any changes.

—Matt Le, Producer

Q

Will there be a “story mode” for VALORANT?

A

It's definitely our goal for players to discover more about Agents and their stories in the future. Right now, some of those details are seeded into the game itself, in Player Cards, Character VO, etc. —there are a lot of places where you can find and piece together snippets! However, a traditional story mode is not in our current plans but....never say never. Our goal is always to listen to players and so we will continue to adapt and create experiences based on what you are telling us you want.
I would love to know what exactly are you going to do about the AFKs/throwers situation? Harsher punishment? Adding a “leaver rating”?

A

Getting an AFKer in your match is definitely tilting, and we're looking into ways to lessen this type of behavior in game. To start off, you'll notice that we are implementing an update in 1.14 that changes the requirements to unlock ranked mode to "games won" rather than "games played." We hope this will force players who are just spam farming matches to actually participate in play and strive for wins. Look for more details in the upcoming patch notes.

Second, we are working on better detection of this type of behavior that will lead to harsher punishment. We're looking into things like rank penalties, experience mitigations, longer queue time restrictions, and even bans if it comes down to it. We want to distinguish between disruptive behaviors that stem from comms and gameplay, and then penalize accordingly. I can't give away our secrets in terms of what our plans for detection are, but know that we are actively working on a way to make the game more enjoyable in this regard! Hopefully you’ll be able to see some meaningful change in the coming year as we roll out these changes incrementally.

—Sara Dadafshar (Killjoy), Producer

Q

You mentioned before that part of the way you fight smurfs is to boost players who overperform. Is there any way to flag players who lose 20 games in a row?

A

If you legitimately lost 20 games in a row trying to win then my heart goes out to you. That being said, it’s far likelier that if someone has lost this many games in a row then they are intentionally feeding. You should report players for this, and this can lead to penalties for the player such as chat and voice restrictions and potentially even bans for repeat behavior.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

Would you consider adding the ability to block players so we can never queue with them again?

A

Interesting idea! There's some nuances we'd have to work through to ensure queue times don't significantly increase, but we understand how frustrating it is when you get matched up with someone who you just reported in the prior match. We'll think on this a bit, but know that we are currently working on better detection of disruptive behaviors in hopes of being able to appropriately administer penalties and hopefully lessen the number of players you wouldn't want to play with to begin with.
I’d really like to know how many hours my friends and I have spent in the game. Is it possible to add this feature?

A

We want players to have ways to show off their investment in VALORANT whether that's their ability to climb the ladder or to showcase how long they've been playing. We're still exploring the most exciting way to do so but rest assured there will be ways to display your dedication in the future.

—Miles Metzger, Revenue Strategist

Q

Will we ever be able to transfer account regions without losing hundreds of dollars of skins and hundreds of hours of progress?

A

This is something we definitely know is important, and it’s on our list behind a couple of other critical priorities for VALORANT. We'd like it to be sooner, but it's looking this option will be available towards the middle of 2021.

—Naoise Creaven, Senior Producer

Q

Have you thought about having certain patches for tournaments exist on their own servers?

A

Tournament Realms (basically, a private server) are something we're actively pursuing and are coming soon™. For First Strike, we were only planning to use a separate patchline (consider this Tournament Realm-lite) for the main event, but ended up launching this early to allow tournaments to continue on the same patch they started on. This has allowed us to keep esports on a separate patch from live and is something we're bringing back globally for the First Strike main event Dec. 3–6.

In the future, we'll have fully flushed out Tournament Realms that will give us even more control over the environment that esports is played on. We'll have specific rules around what patches cab be used for certain tournaments to help create the best environment for competitive play. We're extremely focused on competitive integrity and will continue to adapt our plans in collaboration with both devs and players.
Patch stability has been really bad these days. What’s going on?

A

Oof, yeah this one stings. Our day zero patch stability has honestly been far below our own expectations recently. There are many different reasons for this, from internal process improvements we have to make, to some philosophical changes we should consider, investment in tooling and infrastructure. Honestly, we could even include maybe slowing down a bit.

We’ve been rigorously keeping to the two week patch cadence since even before we started our Closed Beta. Even with the logistical challenges of working from home, the team has been—and continues being—incredibly passionate to get content and features out as quickly as possible, including moving up our maps release schedule. But it’s time to take a breath and take stock of what we need to do internally to make sure that our efforts are sustainable and hitting the quality bar you, our players, deserve.

Now that the biggest fires from the 1.11 deploy (and rollback and redeploy) are out, we’re going to take a few weeks to do a thorough investigation into our processes and tools as well as make sure we have a roadmap for improvements that allow us to continue shipping all the amazing stuff we have planned—sustainably and at a higher quality bar.

We want this to be as transparent as possible so you know what improvements to expect and what to hold us accountable for, so we’ll get back to you before we leave on holiday break with an overview and roadmap of what actions we’ll be taking.

Until then, thank you for your patience, understanding, and support.

—Arnar Gylfason, Senior Producer

Q

I noticed that the latest patch dropped during the NA Qualifiers for First Strike, but then got rolled back. Are you thinking about esports tournaments as you patch? What if these patches are too disruptive?

A

First: thank you for your patience with all of this. Timing esports events in between game patches is a pretty complicated process, especially since VALORANT updates...every two weeks. The dev team did think they made all the changes in time for the qualifiers (see the foreword they wrote for the patch notes), and we’ve been working closely with them to sync schedules. However, this got too squishy and some of the NA Qualifiers ended up on the wrong side of a Tuesday.

This should have been a better experience and we’re definitely looking to improve with the lessons we’ve learned. So here’s what happened: going into the end of the year, both the development and esports teams badly wanted to unlock true Best-of-Fives for the First Strike Main Event by releasing the fifth map, Icebox. We felt Icebox would need four weeks in the ranked queue to provide pros enough time to practice on the map before including it in competition.

We also wanted to keep the next patch (1.12)—which would drop midway through First Strike—light in order to minimize potential disruption. To account for all of this, the VALORANT dev team frontloaded a lot more than the usual amount of content into patch 1.11 and released a map earlier than planned. This led to an unstable experience, and ultimately the patch was rolled back.

As to the timing of the patch: Due to the super dense qualifier schedule happening around the world in the month leading up to the First Strike main event, we had few dates that could both avoid being disruptive to qualifiers and provide the runway of four weeks for Icebox. We erred on the side of releasing patch 1.11 before most of the qualifiers kicked off, but it ended up not quite stretching to account for the NA Qualifiers. We considered it painful but ‘okay,’ given all of the constraints we were working with (and shared patch notes early to those competitors). Smash cut to today, and I think we’re dealing with the worst-case scenario of disruption.

Anyway, to avoid having the first NA Qualifier played on two different patches, we’ve unlocked a separate instance where the remaining 16 teams will conclude the tournament on patch 1.10. In the meantime, the live game was updated to patch 1.11 on Nov. 2. These are definitely some growing lessons we’re learning as we stand up the esport scene and game at the same time.

—Riley Yurk, Manager, VALORANT Esports Strategy

Q

I know you now have Forced Name Change to punish players who violate the Code of Conduct with an offensive name, but what about dealing with the awful stuff in the chat?

A

We knew that chat would be a problem before launch and our new systems weren't going to be ready, so while we worked on finishing that, we put an interim system in place that has been running since launch.

Today we issued chat and voice comms restrictions to the worst of the worst, focusing on language and behavior that’s so obviously bad that it’s easy to detect. We’ve recently deployed a new chat evaluation system that is running in English, which means you might run into more players who’ve received text or voice restrictions. Over the upcoming months, we’re expanding our supported languages and improving our detection so it does more than catch only the most egregious offenders.

It’s important to remember that your words have a meaningful impact on your teammates, and what you say in the confines of a match can have lasting effects on the people you’ve said it to. Hate speech, slurs, and any type of threat or bullying is not welcome in our games. Players that receive chat restrictions are reminded to use in-game comms constructively—we win and lose together!

For the rest of you: Keep reporting players who aren’t following the Code of Conduct. Each report is sent into our behavior systems to review, and having the reports helps us continue to improve our machine learning models and get better & better at dealing with disruptive behavior.
This week’s Ask VALORANT covers weekly challenges, filthy smurfs, and...wait, did you say “test server”?

Q

Thoughts on adding more weekly challenges?

A

The goal of weekly challenges was to provide a bulk source of XP progress and tie some playful texture to the progression experience. To be frank, we're not happy with the current state, as some of them can be a grind. It's also been difficult to strike the right balance between interesting missions and not promoting unhealthy play patterns (eg. playing only to harvest orbs and use your ult).

Our short term outlook is to reduce the completion requirement for many weeklies in Act III and remove the worst offenders completely. So hopefully these changes, along with the extended length of Act III, many more of you will progress further and faster into the Battlepass.

Long term, we want to revisit how to keep game-to-game progression engaging. It's still early, but we have a design that seems promising for further exploration.

—Naoise Creavan, Senior Production Manager

Q

Smurfing is inevitable in ranked games, but I’m curious what you’re doing to discourage smurfs in VALORANT?

A

Smurfing always sucks, especially when you have rank on the line. While it’s hard to stop smurfing entirely in a free-to-play game, we are taking action to combat it. Right now we have a behind-the-scenes system for Unrated as well as one that applies to Iron through Diamond ranked players. The latter tracks an individual’s performance and notices when a player makes a highly disproportionate impact in a game. We then quickly boost them to harder matches and higher ranks in Competitive.

We stop leveraging this system for Immortal+ players because there isn't a ton of room to smurf or play down when you are already near the top ranks. Longer term, we’re also looking at ways to further accelerate placing smurfs into appropriately skilled matches. But right now we are prioritizing some improvements to our core rank system and leaderboards ahead of that.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

Is VALORANT going to get a test server, like League has PBE?

A

Yes! We will be creating a selectively updated pre-release environment, or PBE, some time in the first half of 2021. Specific features/queues will be advertised or limited and patches will be targeted for a certain length of time in advance of going live.

For those that are familiar with the League of Legends PBE, this will serve a similar purpose. We hope to expand on what we have learned and provide an early access experience that does not drastically differ from the live version of VALORANT, but still allows for a glimpse into what we are working on. This will also help us to gather more information so we can capture performance changes and expose bugs early that players might run into.
You should allow an in-game pause per team, because sometimes we have to pee or poop.

A

We've done some rough experimentation with team pauses in-game and pre-round. Pausing mid-round can introduce a number of gameplay concerns that may compromise the competitive integrity of a match. And since we view the competitive integrity of each match as a fundamental part of VALORANT, we've opted to not support mid-round pauses.

We know that sometimes you will need to “pee or poop,” as you so elegantly put it. To make sure everyone has a chance to handle their business, we'll be exploring different ways of possibly incorporating a pre-round pause. This would allow you to pause the match without the possibility of impacting the outcome of engagements.

It'd be rude of us to ask you to hold it while we plan out the details, so you should probably just go to the restroom now while we work this out.

—Steven Eldredge, Senior Producer

Q

Will we ever get a system to share crosshair settings, like the deck system code in Legends of Runeterra?

A

We definitely have plans for more crosshair customization in the future, and a good extension of that feature is to allow you to share your customizations with teammates and friends. I mean sharing is caring after all, right?

—Steven Eldredge, Senior Producer

Q

Will we ever be able to play on the practice range while queueing?

A

The tech is feasible to let you jump into the practice range while queuing, but we’ve been reluctant to pursue this because it is straight up not efficient for what it’s accomplishing and we’re more excited about alternatives, like an aim trainer you could access while in queue.

Here’s why: A practice range “match” is currently  just as expensive for us to run on the server side as a standard 5v5 match, but the effort is about 10x less efficient per player because it is only serving one player at a time. We prefer to preserve our server horsepower for bread and butter competitive matches.

Now about those alternatives. I mentioned a possible simple aim trainer that can scratch the trigger itch, and that could be a step to a future solution where you queue for something like FFA Deathmatch.  There is a bunch of prerequisite tech we need to figure out there before we could do something like this, but an early step we are taking toward this is to implement the ability to join FFA DM games in progress—which we hope to get done early next year.
Are there any updates regarding a “Left Hand View model”?

We know that this is something that a lot of players have been asking for and we've been doing some exploration into this. We're currently in the process of validating how this would work from not just a technical side but from a competitive and artistic front as well. While this may seem like a small technical challenge, we want to make sure this is done right for players. To do this we need to validate a couple of different things:

The first thing we want to consider is how we maintain the art fidelity of our awesome weapon skins, character models, and abilities. We don't frequently get to see different camera views of our first person weapons and viewarms so we'll need to make sure our art still holds up when we switch hands for players. We'll need to make sure that abilities still originate from the same place and that our hot fire still looks like... well... hot fire.

The second aspect we need to consider is how this might impact the competitive integrity of the game. We want to ensure that there are no advantages or disadvantages to playing with a left handed view model and that we maintain a fair competitive playing field. We want to make sure that left hand view isn't the new meta or that players with this preference aren't nerfed.

While this is something on our radar, we still need to ensure that we meet the criteria mentioned above and to do so we'll need to put these changes through rigorous competitive and artistic testing. With all that in mind, we unfortunately don't have a date we can share for when we think this will be available to players.

—Steven Eldredge, Senior Producer

Q

Are you open to updating existing skins, like adding effects for Spline?

We’re open to it! We’ve stated before that we’re potentially open to adding Variants to melees, so it’s not out of the question for us to update an existing skin line. It all comes down to how much players want it, how much work it is, and what things we don’t make as a result (weighing the trade offs). We’ve done little stealth updates that are pretty fast, like changing the gun buddy mount colors on the Agent skins. But going back to add effects to a skin line like Spline is definitely not fast or easy!

So, as of right now, we don't have plans to add feature-based upgrades (like VFX, new animations, or audio) to existing skins. Before we take on something like this, we want to make sure we're making changes players actually want, and that what we're doing is sustainable. That requires more research and testing, which takes time and resources to complete. So even if we did decide to pursue this, players probably wouldn't see it for a while. Going back to work on something we’ve already released means that we aren’t working on the next awesome thing that you’re all waiting for. This is a trade off we don’t take lightly, because ultimately we want to prioritize the content you all want most.

—Sean Marino, Art Lead, and Preeti Khanolkar, Producer

Q

Will the map rotation changes in patch 1.08 result in longer queue times?

These changes will not impact queue times! That's the main reason we didn't hard restrict players from getting the same map multiple times in a row, but instead made it so we significantly reduce the chance of that occurrence. This way, we maintain a little bit of flexibility to keep queue times popping at the same pace.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

This is probably frustrating to hear but: it feels like my experience with VAL on a game-to-game basis is inconsistent, like sometimes I'll have problems landing basic shots but other times everything will feel buttery smooth. I'm not trying to make excuses for my own performance, but something just doesn't always feel right. Do you feel this or see it? Are you investigating?

We’re not dodging this, but understanding what’s going on has been a real hoot. I’ll also say it’s not just you: we’re constantly pulse-checking where players are at on the “reliability and consistency of combat” though surveys, gameplay analytics, and yes, social media (hi, Reddit). Over the past couple months, we noticed some less than inspiring trends on perceptions of shooting reliability (namely, declining positive sentiment around “My bullets reliably hit targets when I expect them to”), so that prompted us to dig deeper.

As I bring up what some players are saying, keep in mind there is a team on VALORANT that is chasing down issues with hit registration and clarity, and they've shipped changes throughout VALORANT's existence so far. But for things like "VALORANT feels different game to game," it can be hard to nail down exactly what that means. For these types of situations, we like to sit down with players (in this case, ranging from Gold to Immortal+) to hear in their own words what's going on.

In our conversations, these players said (broadly) that shooting felt reliable and consistent the vast majority of the time—however, there was also clear room for improvement. They highlighted these opportunities for improving reliability in combat: increasing hitbox clarity, improving readability and predictability of states of movement inaccuracy, and minimizing the difference in gameplay feel across different ping conditions. Those sound like good spaces to investigate, so we are!

We’re now in the process of digging into each one of these, while also trying to build a more holistic picture of gameplay reliability—one that blends player sentiment, gameplay analytics, and a deep technical analysis of our underlying systems. Ensuring the game respects you and your opponents’ skill is critical to delivering on the promise of VALORANT, and we won’t be setting this to the side any time soon. Keep the feedback coming, and we’ll keep on digging.
I understand it means I’m doing something right, but what exactly does it mean when I have stars in my performance history?

A

If you’ve ever received a gold or silver sticker in your life for doing well, then this system likely speaks to you. In the performance tab, a star indicates if you’ve played better than we anticipated. That is, if you were regularly beating someone in combat and/or closely competing with someone of a higher rank than you, expect to have that acknowledged via a star.

A silver star means you exceeded expectations and a gold star means you’ve really punched above your weight. Pat on the back not included.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

Is it true that there’s an extra importance on frags when it comes to getting a good combat score? If so, do you plan on increasing the recognition of assists and other forms of contributions to your team (spotting or slowing enemies, healing allies, etc)?

A

Your combat score is not just based on kills, although that is a big factor in the score. We also look at damage inflicted, meaning that assists where you help kill an enemy are taken into account, as well as utility that does damage.There are some other factors that help inform your combat score, such as first bloods and streaks. These are called out on the combat score tool tip. Longer term, we are looking into ways to incorporate non-damaging assists into your combat score as well.

Regarding competitive, while your combat score indicates how well you performed in core combat during the game, it’s not 1:1 with the performance calculations we use for your rank updates. Rank updates leverage some, not only, of these data points. Simply put, the focus of whether or not your rank updates is primarily focused on wins and the decisiveness of these wins.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

I'm really interested in getting a specific weapon skin variant but it feels bad to have to get a variant I’m not interested in so I can unlock the one I want. Will I ever be able to buy a variant directly?

A

Yes! Starting with Patch 1.10 players will be able to select any variant they want. Weapon skins will still need to be fully evolved to unlock variants, but after doing so, you’ll be able to pick whichever one is most appealing to you.

—Miles "Riot Usury" Metzger, Revenue Strategist

Q

Why don’t any of the melee skins have variants? I think this could look really good, especially on Sovereign and Spline. The melee skins cost more than regular skins but they don't have variants. Personally, I would love to have a green Spline dagger and don't see why we can't.

A

"We've read the frequent posts asking a version of this question and it's definitely something we'd like to have in VALORANT too. So for one of our upcoming skin lines, we're going to test out variants on melee weapons. Consider it a limited test to see whether this is something desired by enough players for our small team to commit to. We'll evaluate and determine what is needed from our end to pursue variants on future melees, if it's something that players really want."

—Sean Marino, Art Lead, and Preeti Khanolkar, Producer

Q

About that audio question last time...can you just tell us if HRTF is coming?

A

First—sorry if it seemed like my original response came across as "we know better!" or that we didn't hear you in wanting HRTF. I just wanted to explain our limitations and challenges we wanted to solve, rather than making it seem like they were more important than your requests. Second, I'll say that we agree that HRTF is a worthwhile endeavor, and plan to begin work on implementation. There are a few preemptive steps we need to take (e.g. engine version updates), but are hoping that we can start in October.
What are your thoughts on the opinion that “the Operator is too OP”?

A

We think the Operator isn't "too OP" but do believe that the feeling sometimes comes from a lack of personal agency against the weapon (for Agents that don't have tools to break line of sight for themselves), coupled with an overwhelming amount of team coordination to effectively counter an Operator. We're looking into a lot of avenues to help smooth out the experience but we do believe the Operator should be powerful and should encourage a team to thoughtfully enter a space where it might be in play.

To give an anecdote: we've tried iterations of the game where the Operator's strengths weren't as sharp as they are today (especially in holding defensive angles). We discovered that without moments where a team was forced to sit down and plan how to play against (or around) a good Operator, a lot of gameplay became about who could rush faster.

The Operator—like all weapons, maps, Agents, etc.—is a part of our continuous holistic review of the state of the game, and we’ll make changes in the future if we feel it’s needed. No changes now doesn’t mean no changes ever.

—Nicholas “Nickwu” Smith, Game Designer

Q

Why do EU/CIS/TR regions get patches and features later than everyone else (like Deathmatch)? Why can’t you just turn things on for everyone at the same time?

A

[Editor’s note: For anyone who wasn’t aware, when we ship major patches, we typically patch in 3 regional chunks. The NA/LATAM/BR regional cluster first, then the KR/JP/SEA/OCE regional cluster, then the EU/TR/CIS regional cluster last.]

There are two things we consider when we select the time to ship new content: server stability and game stability. For server stability, if there’s high demand for a new feature (as there was with deathmatch), we see massive amounts of players logging in simultaneously to play. If we launch a high-demand feature on top of peak login time (typically around 4-7pm anywhere), we’re deliberately DDoSing our servers by creating the largest possible spike of logins. This is why we try to ship ‘off’ peak playtime (which we know is a little frustrating for people who want to play when they get back from school or work). This lets us spread out logins for those who just want to play a game normally vs. those who want to try new content as soon as possible. This might not explain why the EU/TR/CIS regional cluster goes last, but it does highlight why we don’t like to ship highly anticipated patches everywhere at the same time: it’s always peak play time somewhere in the world.

Game stability is the main reason EU/CIS/TR regions typically get big, complicated patches last. We want to make sure if we do hit a critical game-breaking bug, we don’t have to hotfix it across every region simultaneously. EU/CIS/TR regions tend to get more stable patches of all 3 clusters because we can quickly integrate hotfixes before the main patch goes out, rather than having to triage it while it’s already out there. EU/CIS/TR also happens to be the largest population of VALORANT players, so major disruptions have an objectively bigger impact.

Finally, if it makes sense that we need to ship patches ‘off’ peak hours in every region and we want to be able to put in hotfixes before the next region gets a patch (if necessary), then the last consideration is that we’re a Los Angeles-based developer. We try to make sure we ship all patches across a single day (in Pacific Standard Time), because if we have to wait overnight (or work overnight), we’ll have less developers available to fix things at any time. So we start patches as soon as we get into the office (off peak hours, so we can’t start with the EU/TR/CIS regional cluster because EU is right at peak play time), and try to ship our last patch before the end of the night.

This is a long explanation, but hopefully it highlights that we’re not playing favorites.

Q

Sometimes it feels like sound is off in the game, like footsteps are much closer than they really are, or I hear them in the wrong direction! Am I going crazy? Does VALORANT do something different with sound?

A

The footstep radius is set up to give players who hear enemy footsteps time to use an ability and re-equip a weapon before they are in danger.

I've also heard feedback around the fact that people have a hard time telling how far away a footstep is, which there is truth to. We optimize for making sure footsteps are heard, as opposed to optimizing for portraying distance. What this looks like is an attenuation curve that is somewhat flat, versus one that drops off a lot over distance. There are a couple reasons we do this. One is that under chaotic conditions where abilities are being used and you are probably hearing a lot of VOIP from your team, it is essential that you don't miss a footstep.

Based on internal playtests, not hearing a footstep and getting killed by someone you knew had to run to get to you is very tilting. This feels especially bad for players who have internalized rotation times on the map and have good communication and callouts on their team.

We also know our game will be played in a variety of contexts. NA players may be used to playing in a quiet room and hearing every detail, but players in China or Korea may be playing in a loud PC Bang, where a footstep that was quiet but gave more information on distance would be lost. I have never played professionally, but I imagine clarity would also be appreciated for esports players who may be in a noisy stadium (hopefully someday!)

Another reason for this is that we don't want to give players the incentive to turn their volume up to painful levels because they have to listen for faint audio cues to be competitive, or to add external DSP to compress their audio (which happens for some other FPS games.) If the game designers want you to have the information, we want you to clearly have the information.

While there's a drawback from having the attenuation curve flatter, I think the advantages are more important.

As far as panning direction goes, we have heard reports of this both internally and on live. When our design playtest has investigated this in the past using videos of multiple viewpoints, the panning has turned out to be correct.

We currently mix the game in stereo, meaning there is no difference between a sound 45 degrees to your left in front of you and a sound 45 degrees to your left in back of you. Some people expect to be able to hear this difference, but that is not currently possible.

Also, engaging the “7.1” mode on various headphones does not help. There is no way for the headphones to decode our stereo sound into 7.1 and may even make spatialization much worse!
I heard someone at Riot once say that “abilities don’t kill” in VALORANT, but... there are clearly ones that do, like Raze. Are you breaking your promise?
A

This statement isn't completely accurate—especially in a game that already had Raze and Killjoy's gameplay locked in before our announcement... Anyway, that was our mistake—a big part of that mistake was in missing the nuance (specifically that tactical fundamentals—not just “abilities don't kill”—are a key component).

Guns provide the vast majority of kills, and even our damage abilities are designed with the goal of creating threat. When well-played against, guns should be the primary method used to finish off opponents that are preoccupied with a distraction, or trying to avoid the damage. In cases where that isn't holding up—like mid-combat Blast Pack usage—we'll fix those as part of our ongoing commitment to tactical gameplay.

If this promise (abilities never kill) was the thing that made you come to try VALORANT, we're sorry if we misled you, even unintentionally. But our position is, and has been, that abilities that deal damage are a core part of tactical games—whether it be VALORANT or other tac shooters. We can unpack this topic more in the future if you’re interested!

—Ryan “Morello” Scott, Character Design Lead

Q
Are there any abilities or kits that are a no-go in VALORANT? How far is too far for?
A

Specifically, we try to avoid abilities that would remove the high-consequence gunplay. Increased maximum health tends to be a no-fly zone, as do abilities that replace guns (that aren't an ultimate, like Jett or Raze).

—Ryan “Morello” Scott, Character Design Lead

Q
Hi anti-cheat team! We haven’t heard much from you these days, just wondering how things are going. Can you tell us how many cheaters you’ve banned so far?
A

Hi! We've been toiling away in the anti-cheat mines but we've missed talking to you all.

So far we've banned a bunch of cheaters (and their computers) from the game, and have generally tried to keep the miscreants out. We can always do better, but I think we're doing well overall.

I don't have a total number of bans to share but I didn't want you to leave empty handed so I brought something for you number fans out there: 1802

That's the number of manual bans the anti-cheat team has issued after investigating suspicious players. While the overwhelming majority of bans are automatically applied by Vanguard, me and the rest of the team manually review suspicious accounts. This helps us find previously unknown cheats and also lets us evaluate Vanguard's performance. It also gives us an opportunity to manually accelerate the ban for the most disruptive players.

What’s that like? Personally, I like to start my day with coffee and a list of suspicious players sorted by most reported. I start drinking my coffee and go through the list manually reviewing accounts until I've had enough. Coffee, not reviewing. And I really like coffee, which is probably why I am currently top of the team leaderboard for most accounts reviewed. I doubt I'll hold the position for long though because we've recently expanded the pool of people investigating—so I have a lot more competition.
Have you considered an option to disable the special animations / sound effects of gun skins? While the aesthetics of the skins are pretty nice, all the effects around them can be distracting.



A

Yes, we discussed this a lot before launch. There are a few things that we had to consider first before we started building any tech to support something like this, including how players would react to custom effects, animation, and sound.

First of all, we’re committed to fixing anything that compromises the competitive integrity of the game. If it’s objectively interfering with our players’ gameplay, we’ll fix it (like we did for the equip animation and sound priority on the Elderflame Operator). We try to build all of our skins so that they aren't something that players will want to turn off, but we realize that players will always have different tastes. For example, when the Oni skins released, we had lots of players tell us to turn up the audio because they couldn't hear the subtle ghostly sounds in the middle of combat. And, of course, many other players begged us to keep the volume as it is because it was perfect for them.

In terms of the feasibility of turning off different skin elements individually, the possibilities become infinitely complicated. What if I want animations but not the effects? How does that look? Or I don't want the audio, but I want the animations and/or effects? If we played the base audio, it wouldn't sync up to the animations anymore. With so many possible combinations, we can't feasibly ensure a quality, cohesive experience for players. And that's not something we want to compromise.

What is more feasible is enabling the option for a player to toggle between all the levels of a skin they own. This way, if you own a Level 4 Elderflame Operator, you can still toggle down to Levels 1-3, rather than being stuck only using Level 4. A system like this takes time to build and means that the engineers working on it aren't tackling other equally important gameplay needs. All that said, we recognize the value in Skin Level Toggling, and it's something we want to invest in.

—Preeti Khanolkar, Producer, and Sean Marino, Art Lead

Q

When do we get more lore?



A

Are you asking why a chunk of Italy is in the sky? If it can go twice as high? You'll start to understand more as things unfold, but Italy rising into the air is the inciting event for the conflict of VALORANT.

We've always believed that art, creative, and story should serve competitive gameplay first. Now, this doesn't mean we can't tell stories in the world of VALORANT, but that we should pursue other methods—hints and connections buried within the game—while building on a foundational universe that we may never fully explain. We hope you'll join us!

Q

Would you consider the option to create custom keybinds for each Agent?



A

Agent-specific keybinds are very high on our priority list and we've already started work on the feature. Exact patch timing is still unknown, but it's something we want to deliver to players ASAP.

—Jason Falcone, Principal UX Designer

Q

A while back there was a "known issue" with crouching and hitboxes. I was wondering if you fixed it, because sometimes I still see headshots register as body shots?



A

Short answer: Yes, we found and fixed a hit registration bug caused by crouch synchronization in a previous patch.

Long answer: We don't believe there are any major issues with hit registration correctness currently in VALORANT. However, we understand that visual clarity on the result of a shot (particularly in the crouching case) isn't always the best. In this specific example, it’s confusing because a player can crouch their head behind a body shot particle effect, making it look like a headshot.

We're currently iterating on ways to improve readability in this and other scenarios. We're aiming to share an article soon that takes a closer look at the state of hit reg and what we're working on improving, so stay tuned!
Will VALORANT have a gifting system like League has?

A

Yes, gifting will be coming to VALORANT (soon™)! We want to give players the ability to gift content as a way of celebrating victories, holidays, or any occasion that calls for it. We're aiming to enable gifting by the end of 2020, but timelines may shift as we get closer to the date.

—Miles "Riot Usury" Metzger, Revenue Strategist

Q

Is VALORANT going to get an in-game replay system?

A

Yes! this is something that we're interested in exploring soon. Whether it's to study previous matches for tactical advantages or to create spicy memes, we know that players will find a wide range of interesting uses for a system like this.

—Steven Eldredge, Senior Producer

Q

Will there be a map select/playlist option?

A

From a Competitive perspective, we really want to ensure we’re able to not only put players in fair matches but do so in a reasonable queue time. Splitting up matchmaking into separate map pools would reduce the overall players in our matchmaking pool, which not only slows down matchmaking, but makes it more difficult for us to produce fair matches. Given that, we currently don't have plans to enable map specific selection for Matchmaking.

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer

Q

What does VAL want out of their observing client as it relates to esports?

A

We know the esports observer tool currently in VALORANT is a little bare-bones, but it’s something that we’ll be building together in the coming while. We’re taking notes from each set of Ignition series tournaments (happening every weekend!) and getting active input from organizers, spectators, and audience members so we make sure we prioritize the right tools.

Long-term, the observer client is a tool to enable storytelling and to capture the action and style of the game played at the highest level—everything we love about VALORANT from an esports perspective. We believe VALORANT has the potential to be a sport watched and enjoyed by gamers everywhere, but in order for that promise to be realized, we have to craft a viewing experience like no other, and the foundation for that is with the observer client.

We know the game has complexities that add a lot of context to what's happening in a match. Things like Agent locations, what abilities haven't been used, what weapons everyone’s purchased, and so on, are very important in telling a competitive narrative. We want to ensure the observer client can support an entertaining broadcast, both for players that are familiar with VALORANT and those that may be watching it for the first time.

This is a necessary tool that unlocks a broadcast team’s ability to craft amazing viewer experiences. However, it's not just building a great observer client but ensuring there's easy access to real-time data that unlocks a bunch of features and experiences at the broadcast level, as well as experiences like fantasy sports adjacent to the broadcast.

We'll need to build not just the tools you see available today but also dream up what more could be done to unlock broadcast teams in the community and at Riot. We'll have more to share on this in the coming months.

—Whalen “Magus” Rozelle, Snr. Director of Global Esports, and Kasra Jafroodi, Global Business Esports Strategy

Q

How many Radiant-tier players are there in the world?

A

We’ve designed Radiant to represent the most elite players, with anywhere from 20 to 150 players having earned the rank per region, depending on player population size. Earning the Radiant rank is meant to be challenging and a significant achievement for VALORANT players. You also have to remain as an active player to stay in Radiant, if you haven't played in 14 days, you will have to re-earn it.
Do you have any plans to change the aim punch? Like, each weapon getting a different amount of aim punch?

A

Not at the moment, but I do think there’s an opportunity to lessen aim punch in extreme cases, for example, a long fire from a pistol or shotgun that is inflicting minimal damage with lots of fall off.

—Trevor Romleski, Senior Game Designer

Q

Many of us are wondering, will there be a deathmatch mode?

A

Deathmatch is absolutely a mode that is coming to VALORANT in the future. We don't have a timetable yet, but it's something where we're actively working on the underlying technology as well as designing, iterating, prototyping, and playtesting right now.

—Jared Berbach, Lead Game Modes Producer

Q

Are there any plans to make the VALORANT client a non-full screen application?

A

"There are no plans at the moment for menus to have their own display mode setting like the League Client where it launches an executable ‘game’ in full-screen from a news/store/friendlist client. This is mostly due to the fact that VALORANT is an all-in-one executable, whereas League’s is two separate ones. Players can currently put the game into windowed and windowed fullscreen which will also apply to their in-game experience.”

—Steven Eldredge, Senior Producer

Q

Will there be a pick and ban system with Agents and maps?

A

We've considered a draft phase for agents, but the current thinking is that we would not have bans. For some more reasoning around bans: first, we expect teams to have set plays and strategies that will require very specific agents. Banning an agent would invalidate that entire strategy, and we don’t want to discourage practice.

Second, bans often remove a players’ star agent and we want players who are exceptional at certain agents to be able to play them and show off their skills with them. Finally, because VALORANT doesn’t have hard counters in the form of agents (this isn’t our design philosophy), we think the game state is healthier if we’re held accountable to ensuring no agent or agent-facilitated strategy becomes so oppressive or unsolvable that a ban is the only choice.

—Trevor Romleski, Senior Game Designer

Q

Will it be possible to play in other regions? Example, playing on NA servers while being on EU?

A

While we know that some friendships can be easily sustained across thousands of miles, a fast internet connection can’t. All games of VALORANT must be hosted on a single game server located in a single physical location, so even if we allow someone in Japan to queue up with someone in the UK (for example), one of them has to connect to a game server that’s very, very far away. This also means that 8 other players in the game will have to play with someone with a bad connection—and they didn’t sign up for that! We’re going to keep an eye on demand here, but for a game as precise and demanding as VALORANT, we have to focus on keeping all matches fair.
Why can't I earn VALORANT Points in the Battlepass instead of Radianite points?



A

“I sense two separate questions here—why you can’t earn VP and why we give out Radianite Points in the battle pass— I’ll break them out.

So first, why can’t you earn VP in the battle pass? Our goal is that when you buy a battle pass, you buy it for the total value of it rather than buying it as a way of getting enough currency to buy the next one. We want the battle pass to be the highest value product we offer as well as a compelling experience, but by adding VP as an incentive we hurt our ability to fund our long-term vision for the battle pass. We'll be doing more studying on the current battle pass to make sure that you feel like it offers great value and will continue to make sure that the content within it justifies the price.

Now the second question: long-term, what are Radianite points for? Our plan is to have Radianite Points become the evolving currency of VALORANT. So as we develop new features, we hope you'll be able to use it to buy more Gun Buddies, upgrade Player Cards and Sprays in addition to what is currently just weapon skins. We'll make sure to offer ways to spend your Radianite Points on content that is unlocked within the battle pass. It’ll take us some time to get there but that's our long-term vision for the product.”

—Joe Lee, Revenue Lead

Q

Some unrated games have felt really unbalanced, is it because unrated has looser matchmaking?



A

"Our goal with Unrated Mode is to allow players a way to play the core VALORANT game mode with any of their friends. Given this, it means there is going to be a wider range of skills in games, and that can lead to matches feeling less fair. We still have strategies to make sure we keep stomps low and matches competitive, but Unrated will generally have a slightly higher range of skills. We have taken some steps at the cost of a moderate increase to queue times in order to reduce the average disparity in matches. We hope this leads to matches feeling more balanced.

Comparing Competitive and Unrated, we actually have a pretty similar matchmaking configuration, with the biggest difference being that in Unrated, there’s no limitation on who you can party up with skill-wise. As it turns out, lots of folks have friends of varying degrees of skill they'd like to play with!

Right now, the majority of our Unrated matches are still within the skill disparity constraints that Ranked games would allow. For the high skill disparity matches, the skill gaps come directly from the premade, while the matchmaker adds zero or very limited skill disparity to the match. We are working on launching our Competitive mode in patch 1.02, which hopefully will help players in both queues, and Competitive will continue to have hard limits on skill disparity.

As a final note, we do track matchmaking ‘quality’ in many ways, including match balance (the final round score) and skill disparity (the difference in skill between the best and worst player in a match), and so far haven’t found huge balance issues, but we’ll continue to monitor this data at scale."

—Ian Fielding, Senior Producer, and Yilin He, Senior Data Scientist

Q

Will there ever be new guns introduced to VALORANT? Ever is a kinda long time, maybe, are there short-term plans to introduce new guns?



A

“This quote from the article on the VALORANT arsenal sums it up nicely: ‘No weapon should feel like it only exists to troll, or have no imagined use scenario. Likewise, guns that felt redundant were also removed.’

There are no immediate short term plans to add new guns. We've had the current 17 guns in the game for some time now (internally) and feel that the balance is in a good spot as of today. And as noted in the article, we removed some guns along the way in early development if we felt they were redundant or didn't serve a clear purpose.

We'll learn a lot more about the gun balance through the many players playing our game, so I'm sure we'll discover potential gaps in the arsenal we could fill in the coming months.Adding a new gun isn't totally out of the question, but it's also not something we're planning for the short term.”
Hey VALORANT sharpshooters, I’m VALORANT Art Lead Sean Marino here to talk about everyone’s favorite topic: the guns! Specifically, discussing what defines a VALORANT weapon and how we brought these principles to life in the game. First, let's start with this quote from Trevor Romleski, lead game designer.

“BULLETS STILL KILL WIZARDS”

This phrase was something that we latched onto early to help define the gameplay pillars and visuals of the VALORANT weapons. It was the foundation for how we would flesh them out within the game.

First came a pledge to uphold certain standards of the genre. With a tactical shooter, there are expectations around gameplay and weapons that we strived to sustain, regardless of what the VALORANT IP would become.

Then we cemented a “gameplay first” approach. Let’s create a gun for every situation. There should not be an overpowered or “best” weapon in the arsenal. It should be all about trade-offs between power and economy. No weapon should feel like it only exists to troll, or have no imagined use scenario. Likewise, guns that felt redundant were also removed (ask us about the Otto!)

CORE WEAPON PILLARS
Vandal-Concept.jpg
Very early we tried an approach where every weapon had to be more radically different than the last, in terms of art, functionality, etc. But we had lots of weapons to build and this was not sustainable. Out of this trial, we came to these four weapon pillars:

GROUNDED/IDENTIFIABLE
Players should be able to look at a VALORANT weapon and make a connection to what may have inspired it—either visually from the real world, or gameplay-wise from games within similar genres.

BALLISTIC/LETHAL
Bullets. No lasers. No “pew pew.” Yes, gameplay has to be taken into account for balance in terms of damage and such, but ultimately, audio, muzzle flashes, and animations need to reflect a tool that delivers bullets into objects.

TACTICAL
As it relates to weapon animation, the player’s interaction with the weapons are meant to depict intention and precision. Picture how a professional knows their way around a weapon—reloading, handling, etc., every movement reflects thousands of hours of training.

COHESIVE
The origins of our weapons can be traced. That is, we avoided creating mixed “factions” that would show disparate design languages. This was an early decision to not have “A vs B” sided gun designs for VALORANT.

DESIGN PROCESS
Frenzy_evolution_r1.jpg
ART
We began each weapon’s visual design by creating a mashup of guns that fit the gameplay, and made sure to callout key identifiable features that separated each gun from the others. Simply put, players should be able to look at the full arsenal and not confuse one gun for another.

In both first-person and third-person perspective, there should be a unique visual marker per weapon that tells the player immediately what it is. This includes something as basic as the silhouette shape, or smaller details like magazine placement or charging handles.

ANIMATION
Similar to what we discovered early on by trying to reinvent the wheel with weapon identity, we realized we slightly overcorrected and swung too far in the opposite direction. This led us to create animations—and associated audio cues—that are both recognizable and learnable.

Sean McSheehan, lead weapon animator, helped design each weapon to have its own recognizable “beat” pattern. Some weapon equip animations have a two or three-beat step for reloads, for example. It’s case-by-case, but something players can watch out for. See, but also listen. These beats indicate to a player what state their gun is in, and when it is ready to fire.

VFX
muzzle-flash-concepts.jpg
In the same vein as weapons, lead weapon VFX Artist, Stefan Jevremovic, wanted to include a visual differentiation for effects like muzzle flashes in both first-person and third-person perspective—sort of like a language dialect for each that reflects the shape, use, and power of the weapon.

AUDIO
VALORANT is a game of angles. With the help of VALORANT Audio Director Peter Zinda and Sound Designer Isaac Kikawa, we recorded weapon audio so that their third-person perspective sounds change based on their direction of fire. Simply, guns give off a different sound based on whether they are firing toward you, to your side, or away from you.

How did we do this? Well, if we’re using the real world as inspiration, you know we had to include the obligatory audio capture sessions to gather as many sounds as we could for each. Hammer strikes the firing pin? That’s a capture. Magazine releases? That’s a capture. You get the idea.

We also used Riot's foley stage to capture all the surface based sounds, like footsteps, bodyfalls, shells dropping, magazines dropping, etc. We wanted to make sure they sounded consistent, because recognizing sounds on surfaces provides clues to the direction of the noisemaker.

REFINING GAMEPLAY
ATTACHMENT SYSTEM
Some weapons were designed to have an attachment, such as silencers, scopes, and such. For this, some of our team members felt it might be an interesting system if we allowed attachments on any weapon.

But after many rounds of testing, we found that certain guns had “preferable” or best-in-slot attachments, and players never really changed them once they found the ones that yielded the best gameplay results. That’s when we decided to take the stat benefits from those and just bake it directly into the weapon.

Voilà, now the Ghost has a silencer.

Speaking of which, Silencers were the last baked-in attachment we made. Not only do they allow for further visual differentiation between weapons, they include some gameplay benefits. Silencers give a weapon's firing sounds a smaller attenuation than the other guns, unless they are firing toward the listener, in which case they are audible at any range. This prevents situations where players could be killed by a gun they didn't hear, but also gives silencer users some information denial.

Another example. There’s a meaningful differentiation between the Vandal and the Phantom, which helps one not be the definitive "better" of the other and is instead based on gameplay decisions. In other words: it depends on what you want. Like shooting through smokes? Buy a Phantom. Prefer to one-tap at a distance? Vandal is your friend.

ADS CONTENTION
A fairly large point of contention on the team was whether we would allow for aiming down sights, or ADS, with our attachments. In modern shooters, this is a common and mostly expected thing, but in traditional tac shooters this was not.

Trust us, many post-team dinner chats were dedicated to the value of ADS. We left as friends but there were clear "ADS" vs. "hip fire only" divides in some cases. Obviously, we had to solve this, not just to accommodate different shooter players, but find a solution that didn't disappoint advocates on either side.

The solve was done in two parts: One, allow for players to opt into an ADS playstyle if they chose, providing no clear gameplay advantage over hip-fire like you may see in other games. Two, we would keep the attachment design minimal, so that it did not interfere with the visual real estate of the weapon.

We also found that adding big “red dot” or ACOG-like attachments made the guns feel bulkier, and ultimately covered more area of the screen during hip fire, making it feel disadvantageous to the shooter. Our first “tech” attachment was born, a red dot that projected a holographic sight picture. While not quite a grounded-in-reality type device, we felt like we were far enough along with the VALORANT IP to know how technology would organically manifest, and this sort of gadget attachment felt like an appropriate compromise for our visual as well as gameplay concerns.
Hey, VALORANT! I’m Preeti Khanolkar (Producer), and I’m here to talk to you about how we bring weapon skin fantasies to life while staying within the boundaries of VALORANT’s competitive integrity. Together, Sean Marino (Art Lead) and I run the Premium Content team, which is responsible for all the cosmetics you see in the game: weapons skins, gun buddies, sprays, and more. But today, we’d like to focus just on weapon skins!

Last week, Marino outlined our principles for weapons: A gameplay-first approach with a gun for every situation. And that’s not changing, even when your Vandal spits molten fire or blasts sleek sci-fi energy. Our goal for skins is to give players another way to express who they are and what they love without ruining another player’s gameplay experience.

We'd like to give you a behind-the-scenes peek at how we work so you can see how we design skins not just for personalized expression, but for appreciation—to immerse you in your chosen fantasy. And if you want to dive even deeper into your skin’s fantasy, we’ve created evolutionary tracks for several skins that add custom anims, effects, audio, and more to strike the right emotions and feeling—your fit, your choice.

Our rules:

A skin’s model, art, visual effects, animations, and sounds are fully immersive in 1st-person only
Only a skin’s model is seen from another player’s perspective (3rd-person)
No pay-to-win. No pay-to-lose. Nope. Never.
If we find any skin that breaks these rules, it was accidental and we’ll fix it! Sorry, only some of us are robots—the rest of us make mistakes!
THE FIRST DROP OF INK
Alistar_Soul_Stealer_AK.jpg
A fresh coat of paint on your favorite weapon is great, but what more can we do to make you feel an alternate fantasy. And how far can we push it? This far? Yes. That far? No, stop it. That’s the balance we’re always looking to strike.

But before we fall in love with a skin idea, we ask ourselves how we’d execute something like that in VALORANT and whether or not that’s something players even want.

Who’s this for? We don’t make skins for us; we make them for you! That’s why our amazing research team combed through tons of player surveys and lab feedback to see what kinds of themes you want to see in VALORANT. For example, should we lean into traditional sci-fi, high fantasy, sleek modern aesthetics, or create something totally abstract?

PC_Brainstorming


Then the idea. Sometimes a random piece of art will grab us, or a quick sketch from a concept artist, or maybe we expand on something we’re already passionate about. The whiteboards covered in over 130-sticky notes prove no idea is too wild. We take inspiration from improv and always ask “yes, and?” (and never say “no, because”) when we’re in the earliest stages of brainstorming. Still, how do we distinguish between guns that get the "all-in" fantasy treatment and those that don't?

Five questions. A small group from our team—the ones who feel most passionate about the idea and are willing to fight for it—kicks off the ideation process. This is where we flesh out the vision based on the imagined world and desired fantasy. We found that answering a few questions at the outset helps our guide our thinking:

What are some adjectives to describe it?
What theme song sets the mood?
Is there a single key piece of art that captures the universe?
In this alternate universe, who’d use this weapon?
What materials is the weapon made of?
How do we want a player to feel when they use this weapon? What’s their mood?
What’s the “oh sh*t!” moment a player experiences the first time they see this skin?
Without answering these, we’re stuck in a place where we’re thinking “Is this a rock? Is it an alien? Is it futuristic technology? Or is it futuristic technology that aliens made out of rocks?” We don’t want to start making a skin line without clarity on what we’re actually trying to make. That’s why answers to these questions help align the team around a cohesive, unified vision that ties the whole experience together.

Simply, this helps us make better skins.

KICK IT TO THE TEAM
Soul_Stealer_Revolver.jpg
Concept and model

First, our talented concept artists take the team’s abstract (and sometimes insane) idea and references to create the skin’s first concept. Through some back-and-forth, they arrive at a final concept for the skin line.

The modeling process begins in earnest after we bring the concept to completion and agree that it hits the desired fantasy, is something we can actually create, as well as fits within our strict gameplay constraints. For example, we make sure that the skin model matches both the 1st-person and 3rd-person silhouette of the base weapon, and it’s recognizable when on the ground.

Animation

Animation on a skinned weapon should also mirror the beats of the base weapon. The goal here is that no skin makes a weapon feel unfamiliar. Using a new skin should never mean having to relearn a weapon: it should fire the same way, never feel slower (feeling faster is okay, but actually being faster is unacceptable), and it shouldn’t take up less (or more) space on your screen.

In extremely rare cases, we make an exception and break some of these rules if the fantasy absolutely requires it (you’ll see what we mean!). For example, maybe the skin takes up just a little bit more of your screen during the equip animation. But we only do this after lots of debate, tons of testing and iteration, and after we have explicit design approval. And as always, it’s never pay-to-win.

VFX


Your focus in VALORANT is to frag, plant or defuse the Spike, and take home the win with style. This should not change with weapon skins (except maybe some fun pre-round spamming and inspects). Thus, any visual effects tied to a weapon skin should look really awesome, but never distracting.

Weapons will keep their base muzzle flash shape and scale, bullet tracers can only be seen from the shooter’s 1st-person perspective, and aiming reticles will stay clean and easily readable when you ADS.

Audio

Audio is one of those things that really cements the entire fantasy of a skin, but it’s also one of the most important parts of VALORANT’s gameplay. We never want you to think you failed to clutch a round because a skin caused you to miss a critical sound cue.

This means that if new audio is part of a skin, we make sure it’s not any louder or quieter than the base version, but it still pops in a noticeable way. If you’re relying on audio for your spray control, we don’t want new firing sounds to mess with that.

We always make sure there's a sound paired with gameplay-relevant points in the animation, for example, when ammo is loaded into a gun. We do our best to maintain the timings of when these animations make sound, and when they go quiet.

If we're adding sounds during what are otherwise moments of silence in the base version, we do it to delight you and bring something awesome to the skin's theme. However, these purely cosmetic audio elements have their volume ducked by more important gameplay cues around you.

What does this mean? Let’s say you’re hiding behind the truck on Bind A site. You want to reload your Reaver Vandal, but you’re worried that the ghostly reload sounds might block out the enemy Sova’s footsteps as he approaches the site from spawn to defuse. WORRY NOT! Go ahead and reload that Reaver Vandal, knowing that the right audio cues are always being prioritized.

DESIGN PLAYTESTS
Soul_Stealer_Kit_Concepts.jpg
We test everything, and we mean everything, with the team in our Design Playtests (DPT)—our twice-a-day playtest where designers experiment with all of our new features like maps, characters, and you guessed it, skins.

This is where the imagined skin fantasy and commitment to gameplay go through extra scrutiny. Every skin enters rounds of feedback to narrow in on the fantasy without pushing it so far that it violates our commitment to competitive integrity. The DPT crew are our harshest critics, and we love them for that. Here are some examples of helpful feedback we’ve received that helped us make our skins better:

“This was so distracting that it made me not want to buy the Phantom all game.”
“The run animation doesn’t feel as fast/fluid/responsive as the base run melee.”
“It doesn't feel like a Classic. The damage output I get doesn't match up to the sound/vfx that comes with it. I think it’s really cool, but it messes with me gameplay-wise a bit. It’s also a pretty large model."
Apart from DPT testing, we also identify “expert consultants” on the VALORANT team who love the aesthetic we’re hoping to hit. If we’re making a high fantasy skin, we want to make sure our most dedicated fantasy nerd who should like this skin actually likes it. And if they don’t like it, or think it could be better, we want to hear more.

DID WE DO IT RIGHT?
Ultimately, we’ll only know if we’ve made the right skin in the right way once you tell us. VALORANT is still in closed beta, so we’ll learn so much more once we’re actually a fully live, global game.

In the meantime, the glimmer of hope we get is when Sal Garozzo (Volcano) interrupts us at 9pm to tell us just how much he loved a certain special firey melee he used in DPT that evening.

If Sal likes it, maybe we’re on the right track.
Hi again everyone! I’m Chris Stone, a weapons artist on the VALORANT Premium Content team. I last wrote about how our team collaborated to build the tech behind the Spline skins. Now that both League of Legends crossover skins are in-game, the team wanted to share how we got Ruination and Sentinels set off the ground, as well as how we used this as an opportunity to develop new “materials” for VALORANT skins.

OUR NEW MATERIALS
Sentinels of Light is Riot's big summer event, bringing the “Ruined” and "Sentinel" thematics to each of our games. Although VALORANT doesn’t occupy the same space as League of Legends, it was a fun opportunity to bring the “Black Mist” that is taking over Runeterra to our weapons.

Bringing this theme to life offered an interesting challenge: How do we visualize the Black Mist within the crystal while preserving both the competitive integrity of the weapons and creating something that fits within our tight performance constraints?

I knew we had to create something that the League team (and you) would be excited for while also satisfying VALORANT players (like myself) who don't know the first thing about League.

Right away I worked with our team’s FX artist to learn about the signature shapes that make up the Black Mist effect. I was even able to utilize one of his textures for the custom material I was making, which in the end, saved time and made the gun skin feel more cohesive!

King_Phantom_Concept.jpg

Materials here refers to a custom shader built inside of Unreal Engine Material Graph. Through an interesting combination of some light math and 2D painted textures, an artist is able to create some unique special materials, like the Black Mist effect. We experiment with creating these custom materials when we feel that they will add a nice visual bump to our skins.

After studying the concept to understand how I wanted to translate it to the final 3D in-game model, I decided that having the Black Mist effect flowing inside of the crystal material would be a great thematic tie-in to the larger Ruination set, and would hopefully be really hype to look at too.

King_Crystal_Gif_Optimized_02.gif

SO FRESH, SO CLEAN
OK, going to get technical here for a sec.

One challenge when creating any new special material for our weapon skins is authoring it in a clean way so that other artists can take and use it for other gun skins in the line, or building on top of it for an entirely new skin. Pro tip: leaving comments in Unreal Engine material graphs is incredibly helpful when someone else has to take a look at your work—I highly encourage every artist to use them!

After I finished prototyping out the material, I spoke with the FX artist working on the FX smoke trails on the skin to see if he had any thoughts before I called it final. We worked together to make it so he could match the intensity of my custom material with the intensity of his visual FX during the equip and reload animation—two big beats when players can really admire the overall skin.

Speaking of keeping work clean, this effort helped us quickly prototype and make the “Relic Stone” on the Sentinels of Light skin!

SpecialMaterial_Skins.jpg

SENTINELS OF LIGHT
For the Sentinels of Light skins, our lead artist on the project was looking for a way to represent the Relic Stones (these hold the power to keep the Black Mist at bay). The desire was to build the powerful relic intol the SoL skins so that they could hypothetically fight off the “Ruination” running wild in the League universe. The other goal was to make it feel cracked, yet beautiful and powerful —think Forsaken vibes.

Let’s focus on the Vandal for now.

I managed to turn some extra free time into quickly prototyping a material based on the tech I created for the Ruination skins. My first pass was on the rough side, but it was enough to get the rest of the team excited about the concept.

The lead artist on SoL skins took my prototype and added enough awesome new features and textures to make it something that really stood out while still representing the Relic Stone and it’s lore. One of the big visual features added is the ability for the crystal to change states when the gun is fired and reloaded.

This was combined with the great work our outsource managers were already doing with the weapons. They worked directly with our external partner to help guide the other SoL skins from the 2D concept all the way to the final 3D models that you see in game. This tight collaboration between artists and outsource managers really helps to create a large volume of complex gun skins like this set!

Sol_Crystal_Gif_Optimized_02.gif

SPOT THE TECH IN K/TAC
As a Senior Artist on VALORANT, I try to have a holistic view on the quality of weapon skins and search for opportunities where we can level them up, so to speak.

The K/TAC skins are an example of extending the life of new weapon skin tech such as the one in Ruination. While our outsource team was working with our external vendor on the K/TAC skin line, I felt that the materials we were using could be improved to deliver a super clean Battlepass skin for players.

The 2D concept for the K/TAC skins included an interesting faceted (like a gem!) material in the magazines. To try to mimic that, I developed a custom Normal Map, which is a special type of texture that can bend light that hits the gun in unique directions. The final Normal Map pulled that inspiration from the concept and the final gun model. Finally, I created an additional texture that could flow like water through that custom Normal Map to create a magical and oily effect to serve as an energy source.

When looking at real world brands, and then looking at Kingdom and the lore we’ve established in the VALORANT universe, I knew we needed to add some branding on the weapons to really tie these skins together. For that, I worked with our art director on Premium Content to create the brand for the K/TAC skins to add that extra finish polish.

Kingdom2_Before_After.gif

FUTURE TECH
I hope this gives you all a bit of an insight into the less visible work we do behind the scenes to develop fresh and exciting new skins! As always, we carry other day-to-day responsibilities that take up time, but it’s always a great feeling when we can work on developing new tech like the type explained here to help level up VALORANT gun skins.
Hey VALORANT competitors. My name is Ian “Brighteyz” Fielding, and I’m writing as part of the Competitive team today to guide you through VALORANT’s Competitive mode, show you how it all works, and share some of the ‘why’ behind our team’s decisions. Competitive mode will be available soon after patch 0.49, starting with EU and NA.

VALORANT’s Competitive mode uses the same in-game rules and format as the Unrated mode, but with a focus on higher-stakes competition. VALORANT's competitive system is still in its early stages, and we plan to evolve it over time, but we have a core experience we wanted to share with you all in closed beta so that we can build and evolve the mode together. While we plan to keep Unrated mode always available, Competitive matchmaking may be disabled for short periods throughout the closed beta as we work to refine the mode and incorporate your feedback.

Our system aims to solve some of the common pain points we've seen players experience with competitive modes and ranked systems. We're taking your personal skill into account so we can recognize when you're crushing it, combat smurfing, reduce players with ‘boosted’ ranks, and ensure that for most of your matches, you and your teammates are placed into a fair fight.

Alright! Here’s a bite-size summary, with more details below.

Complete 20 Unrated matches to unlock Competitive mode
8 ranks, 3 tiers each, except the top rank, VALORANT
Queue with up to 5-player parties, must be within 2 ranks
Rank isn’t displayed if competitive matches aren’t played within 14 days, but your rank doesn’t decay behind the scenes.
Closed beta rank does not carry over to launch
ENTER THE RANKS
VALORANT_RANK_ASSET.jpg
The option to enter Competitive matchmaking will open once you’ve completed 20 Unrated matches. Consider this a necessary warmup before the sweat starts.

There are eight levels of rank, each divided into three tiers: Iron, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond, Immortal, and our highest rank — VALORANT. Winning games is the most important factor in gaining rank, but if you perform exceptionally well, your rank can go up faster. Inversely, losing games and performing well below expectations (deduced from your previous matches) will reduce your rank.

Your personal performance will have a greater impact on the early evaluation of your skill, but will decrease in importance when compared to wins, as we hone in on your skill over time. Competitive mode also measures how decisively you win or lose. We figure, if there is a benefit to your rank that comes from playing your best for the entire match, it will incentivize you to stay in the fight and not throw games.

For those at the VALORANT rank level, winning and how decisive games are won or lost will be the only factor we measure, because at the highest levels of competitive play, we trust you and your teammates have earned your way there.

COMPETITIVE INTEGRITY
Our rank and competitive matchmaking system is meant to deliver a balanced fight and keep the disruption to a minimum.

Factoring in your total performance also helps us better detect smurfs, prevent rank boosting, and get to an accurate display of your skill (rank) much quicker. This way you’ll have more trust that you're playing in balanced matches with players that have actually earned their ranks.

Planting the Spike can be more fun with friends, so you can queue into competitive matchmaking with a party of up to 5 people. We want players to feel supported when playing in a team of up to 5, because we see it as a key part of competitive play in VALORANT. But whoever you party with must be within 2 ranks (6 tiers) from you. This requirement is to help ensure that there isn’t a huge skill disparity in games where one player is clearly above or below the average skill of other players in the match.

We’ve also taken steps to ensure that you’re on a level playing field regardless of your queue size. Our competitive matchmaking takes into account your pre-made party size, and automatically optimizes your match to favor similar premade sizes on the opposing team.

Rank inactivity will also be tracked. If you haven't played a competitive match in 14 days, then your account will be considered “inactive” and your rank will be hidden. Don’t worry, your rank will be displayed again after your first match back. We want to be confident that when others see your rank, it's an accurate reflection of your skill. After 14 inactive days, we don’t have as high of confidence in displaying your rank. However, we won’t decay your rank artificially in the background, so don’t sweat it if you're one of those players that is always on top of their game.

COMPETITIVE PROGRESSION, AND BEYOND
The VALORANT community will lead the way on how our team evolves competitive mode and the rank systems during closed beta and especially after launch. We’re currently tinkering with how to add an element of persistent rank progression that recognizes your competitive accomplishments for all ranks outside of just the match rank display.

Expect to hear more on this and other improvements on VALORANT’s competitive mode and rank as we get closer to launch.
Hello we are Chris Stone. Senior Weapons Artist, and Sean Bigham, Senior Concept Artist, here to tell and show you how the Glitchpop skins were born out of a misunderstanding and grew into one of VALORANT’s most loud, colorful and bold designs.

Glitchpop is heavy on the visual elements that bring out the futuristic fantasy for players. The muzzle flash, glitch equip, holographic projector, and stickers were all elements that we could clearly theme in the cyberpunk genre, while offering a great first-person visual experience.

A MEGA-MISUNDERSTANDING
Article_GPoP_1.jpg
While working on a completely unrelated skin line, we gave some feedback to our concept artist that was (thankfully) misunderstood and led to a very unique design we dubbed “Megapunk.” The rest of the team saw the design and raved. We knew we had something special, but it needed the right kind of push. 

THE THEMATIC GOAL
Glitchpop was an opportunity to offer our fresh take on a favorite science fiction subgenre, cyberpunk.

With so many amazing representations of all things cyberpunk, we didn’t want to lean too heavily towards any one of them. We had an opportunity to take inspiration from the cyberpunk genre but offer our own fresh take on it. We pulled inspiration from Akira, Ghost in the Shell, Cowboy Bebop, Love Death and Robots, Josan Gonzalez, Altered Carbon, Deus Ex, Ruiner, and many others. Ultimately, we wanted to focus instead on how to push this skin line towards a more fun and punk aesthetic vs. the classic gloomy and grounded dystopian representation we often see. To keep ourselves oriented towards this thematic goal, we coined the term “Playful but Deadly.” 

The term branched into the product pillars for this line: Bold. Colorful. Playful. Graphic. These were established before we cemented the VALORANT Brand Tones. Turns out, they line up very well (even if accidentally!).

Article_GPoP_9.jpg
Still, we of course did reference some classic cyberpunk themes:

The world is a futuristic Corporatocracy. Everything appears happy through corporate imagery and advertisements but has an underlying dystopian twist.
Corporations are specifically targeting younger audiences with fun characters, brighter colors, and are trying to be less overtly megacorp.
The stickers on these guns are all corporate branding that appears counter-culture to consumers.
Overall, we loved the juxtaposition of a lethal weapon paired with happy colors and playful stickers.
We’re creating a lifestyle and casualness around something that’s anything but.
Weaving the narrative ties in every facet of Glitchpop were important to give it the feel as if pulled from an alt-universe. We relied on the genuine but less familiar cyberpunk themes to be the forefront of our design, with hopes to avoid cliches.

CONCEPT EVOLUTION
There’s no delusion that we all have a very North American perspective of how we view Cyberpunk. That’s why one of our other concept artists, who’s from Russia, brought a lot of elements that Western players are not typically used to seeing. His initial idea with the Bulldog set the foundation of how we would approach the design—create the stock version and add the punk attitude.

01
02
Our concept artist Sean Bigham worked with our external partner to help guide the concepts that were used to make the models you see in game today. 

Early development of the gun focused on designing a factory fresh, stock version of the weapon which had a modular aspect to it built upon many recognizable hallmarks found in sci fi and cyberpunk: grey plastics, emissive lights and copper elements. Once the base design was resolved, we began experimenting with various ways to push the personalization of the weapons in order to have a fresher take on the genre.

Initially, we had our concept partner go very far with a bunch of different ideas. Each one felt very different from the next but hit certain cyberpunk thematics we had established. Ultimately, we wanted the partner to focus on creating guns that appeared like they could be purchased off the shelf and then upgraded with aftermarket parts to suit their needs and style.

This is where the “upgrade” with a holographic logo projector, a digital glitch muzzle flash, and a glitch equip effect came in. We didn’t want to simply slap on these elements though, we wanted to find a way to integrate them into the gun with some sort of functionality in order to solidify the design. Looking at the Bulldog, the copper cable runs from the battery on the right side to the holographic projector seen in first person, which then runs down the gun towards the barrel for the digital muzzle flash.

01
02
From a design standpoint, we thought it would be good to allow for the stickers, glitch effect, and projector to stand on their own. From a color standpoint, simplifying the gun to a color gradient that has a contrast with carbon fiber and copper trim helped the stickers pop a lot on the gun.

Our partner was able to contribute a wide variety of ideas without explicit guidance every step of the way. They were excited about working on the skin line and brought ideas to the table through their explorations, which ended up benefiting and improving the initial idea.

LOGO EVOLUTION (AKA BRING ON SEAN BIGHAM)
01
02
Memorable logos are always a challenge. Now try creating ones that someone wants to decorate their weapon with.

We knew that we wanted to deepen the fantasy by thinking about how the weapon would be personalized with stickers and holographic elements that reference “real” brands in a cyberpunk alternate universe.These needed to target a mixture of happy and serious tones that are both corporate feeling and somehow punk.

The logos should interact nicely with the company name from a design standpoint and should not feel like a company just slapped their logo onto a cool image. Also, we didn’t want any logos that were too on-the-nose cyberpunk. Remember, less cliche the better.

Finally, we wanted to have a fun mix of food, beverage, security, and other random brands. Unico Pomade ended up being one of the favorites (a hair care brand). Other favorites are NSSDLE, Mons Pain, and Monster Burger. Yummy.

Our first round of logos were way too corporate—a hand-made feel was missing. So then, we moved to the other end of the spectrum. The revisions appeared very hand crafted, but no longer evoked any corporate imagery or feelings. Eventually, we hit the sweet spot. Logos that have a corporate touch but feel very playful and fun.

NOW, THE FUTURE
Article_GPoP_6.jpg
With Glitchpop, we think we made a VALORANT skinline that glimpses into a dystopian future, where death has no consequence but it’s life breathes through bright, colorful skins, and a playful but deadly attitude. 

We hope you enjoy them!
Hi, VALORANT community! Preeti Khanolkar (Producer) and Sean Marino (Art Lead) are back! Last time, we talked to you about the design for the base arsenal and how our team develops skin fantasies within the bounds of competitive integrity. Today, we’re ready to delve into the details of how the Premium Content team built our most ambitious skin yet: Elderflame.

Editor’s Note: Before we named it Elderflame, the entire team called the skin line by the code name “Dragon” for over a year. You’ll see us call it Dragon throughout this article because it’s the best way to tell the Elderflame story.

Dragon is a skin line that’s been close to our hearts as far back as 2015. It’s a testament to our love of VALORANT, our dreams of what a skin in VALORANT could be even before the base weapons existed, and our aspirational barometer. For us, Dragon was precisely about its unexpectedness—no picture or concept could fully convey our vision: a living, breathing creature.


“WE’RE NOT READY TO MAKE DRAGON”

In 2018, our senior concept artist, Timur Mutsaev, designed the very first Dragon concept, then known as “Elemental Dragon.” Although it showed incredible potential and hyped the team, there was no world where we could start working on it. That is, we didn’t have a grasp of the VALORANT skins art style, or even know what the game’s skins could be. We hadn’t even finished making all of the base weapons!

When anyone asked when we’d make that badass Dragon skin, the answer was a consistent “We are not ready to make Dragon,” usually heard from Marino.

“ARE WE DOING THIS?”

By 2019, we had made our first few evolving skins and making Dragon a reality began to sound more plausible.

But before solving art and design questions (there were many), first we had to decide if we should even make it. There were some doubts on the team about whether players would even want dragon skins at all, especially given VALORANT’s more grounded tone.

In the meantime, we kicked off brainstorming for new skin ideas but Dragon still remained in the back of our minds. To no one’s surprise, Preeti snuck it onto the team’s brainstorm whiteboard and several team members voted for it.

Worldwide skin concept testing also gave us confidence that, yes, players did indeed like dragons and they wanted a dragon skin in VALORANT.

ANATOMY LESSON

Dragon-Operator-First-Concept-old-style.jpg
Next, we had to think about the shape and anatomy of a dragon (yeah, gross) and how that would map to our weapons so they’d still be recognizable. The Vandal, Operator, and Judge were clear contenders but the pistol initially stumped us, as we realized a pistol Dragon skin would result in… anatomically challenging reload animations. We eventually made it work on the Frenzy, preserving both anatomy and decorum as you’ll see below.

Also, could we have weapon animations that made the dragon feel alive? Would it have a negative gameplay impact? And, after all those considerations and restrictions, how far could we actually push the fantasy?

With a completed concept (thanks Timur!) and strong execution idea, Preeti again asked Marino if he thought the team was ready to start creating Dragon.

He demurred, “We are not ready to make Dragon.” Here’s why:

We needed to develop tech, which we currently lacked
The team needed to get a few cycles of experience making other evolving skins first
We needed to test how long it takes us to make a skin from start to finish—we didn’t want the time cost of making the skin to sacrifice our ability to make other skins
Our artists didn’t know if they were comfortable with hitting the bar yet—we had a team that specialized in making guns, not living creatures!
In late summer 2019, Marino finally said “We are ready to make Dragon.” No one believed that he had changed his mind, but we went to work anyway.

CREATURE FEATURE

“Dragon” is kind of a loaded term that you can’t just toss around. Dragons should wield some element like fire, ice or electricity. It should draw from folklore or risk becoming just another gift shop trinket. A solid vision for Dragon meant artists would know how to execute each of their pieces and quicken overall development.

This led to a fun but heated argument at Lead Designer Trevor Romleski’s desk among roughly eight developers, where we all learned a little more about the difference between dragons, wyrms, wyverns, drakes, and other mythical beasts that some of us had wrongfully assumed were all the same thing.

Trevor told us we weren’t really making a dragon; we were making a drake. (Yeah okay, thanks Trevor). We didn’t pivot away from our idea, but it was an educational exercise nonetheless.

Through a series of questions and imagination, we established four core pillars: Dark & Brooding, Living & Breathing, Loyal, and Lethal.

Dragon’s tone would be powerful and badass. Not cute. We’ll say it again: NOT CUTE. This may sound like a trivial detail, but holding true to the “badass” vs. “cute” tone helped shape several key decisions in Dragon’s development. Our dragon is more in the realm of Game of Thrones than within the whimsy of How to Train Your Dragon.

IT’S HAPPENING!

Audio & Inspiration

Updated_Camel_004.jpg	IMG_0024.jpg
August 19, 2019—we officially kicked off production on the Dragon Vandal. Oddly, it didn’t start with the usual 3D blockout model, but with sound.

Sound Designer Isaac Kikawa is a pretty low-key guy, and one day just casually shared several minutes of audio with the team. Eyes closed, with nothing to expect, the first few seconds made it clear that Isaac had given Dragon a voice: distinct, powerful and threatening. It inspired us.

Isaac explained that he mixed all sorts of sounds to create the dragon’s roars: walruses, Bengal tigers, and of course the Yellow Backed Chattering Lory, among others. He also managed to strip audio from a video of an alligator that Marino’s mother happened to record on her cell phone.

About two months before we shipped Dragon, Isaac made a few additional recordings for the Finisher, which meant befriending a very large camel.

Concept & Model

The first task of newly-hired senior concept artist Denis Lakhanov was a daunting one: the Dragon weapon concepts for the Frenzy, Operator, and Judge. His Frenzy design was when we realized that each of the dragons would have their own unique personalities, which would come to life through all of their components working together.

Dragon-Frenzy-Personality-Exploration.jpg
The Judge was the brute of the bunch, and all of the concepts felt like they could fit his temperament.

Dragon-Judge-Personality-Exploration.jpg
We had to make a scope somehow, which led Denis to explore the idea of a dragon with wings that would clasp its wings together to form the scope. Even with a solid tonal direction, the team almost latched onto the idea of a slightly derpy, loveable dragon (Item 1 below). We thought it was funny and endearing, but ultimately not fitting, so we opted for a mixture of 2 and 3.

Dragon-Operator-Personality-Exploration.jpg
Marino started with the 3D model for the Vandal and worked closely on the design for its face to ensure it felt badass. “Not cute,” remember? The magazine was another modeling challenge to solve. Did you know it’s easy to make a magazine made of magma rock accidentally look like poo? We didn’t either.

To 3D model the rest of the dragons, Outsource Managers Hayley Chen-O’Neill and Joel Kittle enlisted support from our external partner who specializes in extremely high-quality 3D art for games. The Frenzy and Judge proved to be very challenging, but the Operator was such an unruly beast that it almost didn’t make it through development. On several occasions, we thought we had to admit to ourselves that a massive, winged Operator just would not work. But, in the end, the team made it work because they couldn’t imagine letting players down.

Animation

Senior Animator Sean McSheehan knew that animation was the most critical component when it came to gameplay, based in part on our earliest playtests with players.

The biggest point of feedback was that it was hard to tell if a gun was ready to fire when their hands didn’t directly interact with it (we had experimented with a “summon” animation for one of our prototypes). Through these player labs and design team playtests, McSheehan learned that a character’s hand motions must match the beats of the base gun’s reload. Otherwise, there’s a risk that the reload feels slower despite literally being the same speed.

McSheehan worked in lockstep with design to validate every motion and ensure that even when he pushed the assets far, it was never too far.

Animation is also where Dragon’s personalities really emerged. The first test was on the Vandal that changed from a panic clawing for the magazine to an enraged beast.

Dragon_Vandal_reload_exploration.gif
Though the idea above didn’t work for the Vandal, it was perfect inspiration for the Frenzy’s reload. As the baby of the brood, a panicky “gimme gimme” reload felt just right. McSheehan also utilized the Frenzy’s tail so it felt as if it were scurrying into the player’s hands.

Dragon_Frenzy_Equip.gif	Dragon_Frenzy_Equip_Alternate.gif
For the Judge, we likened Denis’ concept design to a rhino. It’s big, brooding, and forces its way through all obstacles. He’s impatient and angry too, so he uses his mouth during the reload and crushes the magazine. This earlier animation test felt too playful, while the one that ultimately shipped better captured the Judge’s boorishness.

Dragon_Judge_reload_exploration.gif
Given the size of the Dragon Operator, we felt the weapon carried with it an elderly wisdom. Accordingly, his movements are smooth, flowy, and dramatic. He gives a little snort when you reload him. And though he’s not aggressive like the Vandal or Judge, he’s still dangerous.

Keep an eye out for McSheehan’s subtle idle breathing animations that really give the dragons life.

VFX

Our senior VFX artist, Stefan Jevremovic, had a lot of effects to create for each of the Dragons, all within the realm of fire: smoke, embers, and flames. To give the dragons an extra menacing and lethal feel, he added idle fiery effects, which he embedded within the dragons’ bodies. As the dragons breathed, additional fire effects would ebb and flow deep within the crevices of their scales.

VFX ended up being quite critical for defining not only the Dragon melee, but VALORANT melees in general. First, back to the concept. We had Denis explore a few options for what the melee could be, ranging from a dragon claw all the way to a literal baby dragon. One baby was enough.

Also, it looked like the poor little guy was being choked and we felt weird about that.

Dragon-Melee-explorations.jpg
Once we’d decided that the melee wasn’t a baby dragon, we felt like it was okay to set it on fire. This was also the moment when we realized just how far we could push melees in our game compared to guns! Stefan pushed the fire effects and smoke as far as he felt he could get away with and the result was, surprisingly, very well received...well received enough that Sal Garozzo came running to us to tell us how much he loved the melee. (Sal usually doesn’t have much to say about skins, unless it negatively impacts gameplay, so when he asked “Who made that melee?” we thought we’d done something wrong.)

So, Stefan pushed the melee even further, and then went back to amp up a few other melee skins he’d added effects for in the past.

PENCILS DOWN, EXHALE

As we write this article, we’re putting the very final touches on Elderflame (we’ll stop calling it “Dragon” now): the chroma materials, the chroma VFX, and the Finisher. And the Elderflame card, which fully evokes the idea that Elderflame is a goliath, not just a tiny beast you hold in your hands.

Ares_Dragon_Wingspan_Final_V1_19June2020small.jpg
So, why the name “Elderflame”? We wanted it to feel like a dragon breed that thrives and rules the alternate fantastical world it inhabits. Even with this clear direction, naming this skin line was difficult to say the least.

Truth is, it’s indescribably hard to name something you love and have poured so much passion into—10 months of passion, to be exact—while simultaneously trying to ship a bunch of other skins and cosmetics.

Oh, and the game. We shipped the game. And it has dragons in it!

Hello again! I’m Brian Chang, a member of the Competitive team on VALORANT. This article is going to be a bit different than previous ones in the Game Health series, focused on a very specific topic: map randomness. 

If you’ve ever wondered how it was possible for you to play Icebox for 4 games in a row, you’ve come to the right place! 

A common sentiment that we’ve seen in the past is frustration when you encounter the same map multiple games in a row. In a recent survey, over a third of VALORANT players responded that it is “Extremely Frustrating” to encounter the same map multiple times in a row.

This isn’t too surprising. Playing the same map gets stale quickly, and limits the type of challenges that you face in the game. As a result, we wanted to make sure that we could improve the diversity of maps played without compromising the health of matchmaking (by influencing things like queue times or match balance). 

To explain what changes we made and the results of those changes, let’s first take a look at what the old system looked like.

LAUNCH (JUN. 2020) TO PATCH 1.08 (SEPT. 2020)
When the game initially launched, map selection was truly as random as it could be. When 10 players entered a match, our matchmaker would randomly choose any of the available maps (back then, we had a total of 4 maps). All maps had an identical chance (25%) chance of being chosen, regardless of whether a player had played that map recently. 

Obviously, with only 4 maps available to choose from, players were experiencing consecutive maps quite a bit. Here’s what the distribution of consecutive map streaks looked like during this time period:

05302022_GameHealthSeriesPart2_MapDiversity_Chart_2_v02.jpg
Over the course of 5 games, 26% of players saw the same map 3 or more times.
If you played 5 games during this time period, there was a 26% chance that you’d get the same map 3 or more times in a row. Around 1% of the most unlucky (or lucky?) of you saw the same map 5 times in a row out of 5 games.

PATCH 1.08 (SEPT. 2020) TO PATCH 4.04 (MAR. 2022)
We quickly realized that “full random” selection was not ideal—no matter how much you love a map, 5 consecutive games on Ascent can get stale pretty fast. To combat this, we implemented a “pseudo-random” selection system, aimed at showing maps a player hadn’t seen in recent games. 

This method favored maps that were, on aggregate, not seen by the 10 players in a game. It also heavily punished maps that any player had experienced in a streak recently. 

Long story short, we aimed to reduce the number of streaks encountered, but the selection itself was still a weighted “random” choice. In other words, it was less likely for someone to get unlucky and experience a streak, but it was still very much possible to get unlucky. For instance, a game could have a handful of players who recently played games on Split. This could lead to Split having a mere 5% chance of being selected as a map. However, that 5% chance meant that some players would see the Split 4, or even 5+ times in a row.

Here’s what the new distribution of consecutive streaks looked like:

05302022_GameHealthSeriesPart2_MapDiversity_Chart_3_v02.jpg

As you can see, the number of players experiencing a streak of 3 maps or more went down significantly (26% in the “truly random” method vs. 10% in the “pseudo-random” ticket method). 

As we introduced more maps to the pool, we saw significant reductions in how often players were encountering streaks of the same map. Here’s what the streak distribution looked like as we released more maps (with no major changes to our map selection methodology): 

05302022_GameHealthSeriesPart2_MapDiversity_Chart_4_v02.jpg
Streaks became more rare as we released more maps.
Just by increasing the number of maps possible to play, the number of 3+ streaks went from 10% to 3%, with no changes in map selection methodology!

PATCH 4.04 (MAR. 2022) TO NOW:
The results of the changes up to now led to a significant improvement, enough for us to think that our work here was done for the time being. Your feedback, however, told us there was more to be done. 

In a survey sent out to players in North America around March of this year, 67% of players responded that they feel like they’re encountering the same map multiple times in a row “Often” or “Very Often.” 

05302022_GameHealthSeriesPart2_MapDiversity_Chart_5_v02.jpg
Source: NA Players, March 2022
This was pretty alarming to the team; despite the improvements that we saw in our telemetry, the player perception was that map streaks were still pervasive in the game. On top of surveys, we were also seeing a pretty cyclical weekly “why did I get Icebox 3 times in a row?” Reddit/Twitter post. 

We decided to explore improvements to the system one more time. Specifically, we realized that what you were asking for wasn’t more “random” map selection, but a more diverse one. By trying to make selection random via the old system, we weren’t fully minimizing the “bad luck” scenarios that you were experiencing. 

So instead of making map selection a random process, we instead opted to create a deterministic choice that always selects the map that minimizes streaks. If a certain map showed up too often in your recent history, we would remove that map from the selection pool altogether. From there, we would always choose the map that the 10 players in the lobby had seen the least.

The change was implemented in Patch 4.04, first with a regional test in LATAM, then rolled out to the rest of the world. It was important to us that these changes didn’t increase queue times or worsen match balance, since adversely affecting either of those metrics would be a much more costly tradeoff for us to make.

Here are the results of the most recent changes to map streaks: 

05302022_GameHealthSeriesPart2_MapDiversity_Chart_6_v02.jpg
No player in the first week of April saw the same map 5 times in a row in Competitive queue.
The most significant improvement thus far! The percentage of players experiencing the same map 3 times in a row has now dropped to 0.06% (1 in every 1700 or so players). What’s more is that in this week period that we looked at in Competitive queue, exactly 8 of the several million players saw the same map 4 times in a row. Fun fact, 2 out of those 8 are serial queue dodgers that avoided specific maps (for the other 6, sorry about the insanely bad luck). No player saw the same map 5 or more times in a row. This was done with zero negative impact to queue times or match balance. 

There are other metrics that we tracked alongside map streaks, like how often you saw the same map frequently (not necessarily in streaks), and how long it took before you played each map at least once. Both of these metrics also improved significantly after the changes we made in Patch 4.04.

AND NOW… LATER?
As we mentioned in the most recent Ask VALORANT, we do believe that there are times when agency around map selection does make sense, specifically when it comes to coordinated, high-stakes, competitive team-play, like our planned tournament mode.

At this point, we feel relatively confident that deterministic map picks alleviate much of the pain regarding diversity in map selection. Our most recent surveys also show that sentiment improved after the changes. We’ll continue to monitor our data to see if any additional changes need to be made, but so far, the changes seem good!
INTRODUCTION - THE WAY INTO THE PROBLEM
Comms toxicity covers what we consider unwanted behavior over in-game voice and chat communication. While we can never remove the bad conduct itself from individuals, we can work to deter behavior such as insults, threats, harassment, or offensive language through our game systems. There’s also room to encourage “pro-social” behavior.

As we’ve said before, we’re dedicated to being a strong force in paving the way for a brighter future for all when it comes to comms-related toxicity in gaming. There’s been what we believe to be healthy progress in this area, however, we can see there is more to do.

While there is no silver bullet, we want to walk you through some of the steps we’ve taken (and the measured results), as well as the additional steps we’re planning to take to improve the chat and voice experience in VALORANT.

WHAT HAVE WE DONE SO FAR?
First, let’s talk about the work we’ve done up to this point. When it comes to unwanted communication in our game, there are two primary forms of detection that we rely on.

PLAYER FEEDBACK
The first form of detection is player feedback—specifically reports! One of the reasons we highly encourage all of you to report bad behavior (whether that be someone abusing chat, or being AFK, or purposely throwing), is because we actively track and use that data to administer punishments.

To be clear, this doesn’t mean that anyone who gets reported will get punished—we look for repeat offenders and administer escalating penalties that start from warnings and go all the way to permanent bans (when bad enough).

We’ve talked before about creating player behavior “ratings” when we talked about AFKs in VALORANT. Similarly, we’ve created an internal “comms rating” for each player in VALORANT, so that those who commit repeat offenses are very quickly dealt with.

On the other hand, there are some things that people type and say in our game that are what we consider “zero tolerance” offenses. These are things that make it clear that, based on what’s been said, we simply do not want a player who has committed this offense in VALORANT. When we see reports of this type of language being used, we escalate to harsh punishments immediately. (Currently, these punishments happen after the match has ended—more on that later.)

MUTED WORDS LIST
As I am sure some of you have experienced, automatic text detection isn’t perfect (players have found pretty “creative” ways to bypass our systems), so there will be times where “zero tolerance” words will get by our detection. For this reason, we recently implemented a “Muted Words List” that allows you to manually filter out words and phrases that you don’t want to see in the game.

This serves two functions:

First, knowing that our automatic detection systems aren’t perfect, we want to give some agency to you to filter unwanted communication in the game. Second, we plan on incorporating the words that you filtered using the Muted Words List into our automatic detection in future iterations of the system (so in a way, using the Muted Words List will improve our automatic detections in the future!).

WHAT WERE THE RESULTS?
So far, we’ve explained to you some of the things we’ve done to detect, punish, and mitigate toxicity in VALORANT. This is only the tip of the iceberg and we have a long journey ahead of us, but let’s take a look at some of the results of our actions.
CHAT MUTES
GS_Graph_1.jpg

First are chat mutes, the most common form of initial punishment that we administer for alarming text or voice comms. In January alone, we administered over 400,000 text and voice chat restrictions in the form of a mute. These are automatically triggered when a player types something in chat that we detect as abusive, or when enough reports have accumulated over time (from different players in different games) such that we have strong confidence that a player is abusing text and/or voice.

The road doesn’t end here! Please note that we are working on improving this model so we can confidently detect more words that may be currently dodging the system. We’ll continue to push for improvements on this front.

GAME RESTRICTIONS
GS_Graph_2.jpg

Next up are game restrictions. These are bans that we place on accounts that commit numerous, repeated instances of toxic communication. The bans could range from a few days (for smaller violations by relatively new offenders), to year-long ( for chronic offenders). Permanent bans are reserved for if the behavior is especially egregious and/or repeated.

These bans didn’t ramp up on VALORANT until around the middle of last year (we were trying to make sure bans were fully justified). In January, we dished out over 40,000 bans.

One last point of data we’d like to share: the above numbers are indicators of behaviors that we caught and punished, but not necessarily an indication that toxicity in VALORANT has gone down as a result. In fact, when we surveyed players, we noticed that the frequency with which players encounter harassment in our game hasn’t meaningfully gone down. Long story short, we know that the work we’ve done up to now is, at best, foundational, and there’s a ton more to build on top of it in 2022 and beyond.

We’re trying different ways to engage with the player base in the coming year to better understand where we can improve, and we’ll be sure to be transparent about where we are in terms of the tech we are building and where our head’s at/heading so we can keep the feedback loop open with you all.

WHAT WORK IS PLANNED?
To be sure, we know there is more to do. So we now want to share a bit more about what we’re currently working on:

Generally harsher punishments for existing systems: For some of the existing systems today to detect and moderate toxicity, we’ve spent some time at a more “conservative” level while we gathered data (to make sure we weren’t detecting incorrectly). We feel a lot more confident in these detections, so we’ll begin to gradually increase the severity and escalation of these penalties. It should result in quicker treatment of bad actors.
More immediate, real-time text moderation: While we currently have automatic detection of “zero tolerance” words when typed in chat, the resulting punishments don’t occur until after a game has finished. We’re looking into ways to administer punishments immediately after they happen.
Improvements to existing voice moderation: Currently, we rely on repeated player reports on an offender to determine whether voice chat abuse has occurred. Voice chat abuse is significantly harder to detect compared to text (and often involves a more manual process), but we’ve been taking incremental steps to make improvements. Instead of keeping everything under wraps until we feel like voice moderation is “perfect” (which it will never be), we’ll post regular updates on the changes and improvements we make to the system. Keep an eye out for the next update on this around the middle of this year.
Regional Test Pilot Program: Our Turkish team recently rolled out a local pilot program to try and better combat toxicity in their region. The long and short of it is to create a reporting line with Player Support agents—who will oversee incoming reports strictly dedicated to player behavior—and take action based on established guidelines. Consider this very beta, but if it shows enough promise, a version of it could potentially spread to other regions.
Lastly, we talked about this when we discussed AFKs, but we’re committing to communicating both the changes we make, as well as the results of those changes, in a more regular cadence. It helps us stay accountable, and hopefully helps you stay informed!

EXTRA WORD ON VOICE
When a player experiences toxicity, especially in voice comms, we know how incredibly frustrating it is and how helpless it makes us feel both during the game, as well as post game. Not only does it undermine all the good in VALORANT, it can have lasting damage to our players and community overall. Deterring and punishing toxic behavior in voice is a combined effort that includes Riot as a whole, and we are very much invested on making this a more enjoyable experience for everyone.

VOICE EVALUATION
Last year Riot updated its Privacy Notice and Terms of Service to allow us to record and evaluate voice comms when a report for disruptive behavior is submitted, starting with VALORANT. As a complement to our ongoing game systems, we also need clear evidence to verify violations of behavioral policies before we can take action, as well as help us share with players on why a particular behavior may have resulted in a penalty.

As of now, we are targeting a beta launch of the voice evaluation system in North America/English-only later this year to start, then we will move into a more global solution once we feel like we’ve got the tech in a good place to broaden those horizons. Please note that this will be an initial attempt at piloting a new idea leveraging brand new tech that is being developed, so the feature may take some time to bake and become an effective tool to use in our arsenal. We’ll update you with concrete plans about how it’ll work well before we start collecting voice data in any form.

HOW YOU CAN HELP!
The only thing we’d ask is that you stay engaged with the systems we have in place. Please continue to report toxic behavior in the game; please utilize the Muted Words List if you encounter things you don’t want to see; and please continue to leave us feedback about your experiences in-game and what you’d like to see. By doing that, you’re helping us make VALORANT a safer place to play, and for that, we’re grateful.

We’ll see you in the next update! In the meantime, feel free to send any feedback or questions to members of the S&PD Team:
INTRODUCTION - THE WAY INTO THE AFK PROBLEM

Someone who is “AFK” is someone who leaves or otherwise does not participate during an ongoing game. Most multiplayer games have an issue with AFKs, and all competitive team-based multiplayer games face this issue to some degree or another.

VALORANT is no exception but that doesn’t mean we can’t discourage disruptive behavior. An AFK in a game compromises the competitive integrity of the match (matches aren’t fair if it’s a 4v5), and as a result downgrades general enjoyment of the game. It’s something we knew was a must-solve for players early in the development of the Social and Player Dynamics team.

Earlier this year we updated you on the work to inhibit AFKs (along with some other stuff), where we talked about some improvements that we’d already made and other work that was in progress for AFKs.

When addressing AFKs, we wanted to make sure of a few things:

We don’t punish you for unlucky games. Stuff happens (your cat “accidentally” kicks the power cord out) and we don’t want to punish you for rare, unfortunate circumstances that are out of your control.
We want a scalable way to detect AFKs that avoids false positives. It would be really bad if someone was holding an angle for a while staying completely still and we flagged them as AFK.
We want to make sure that there are clear signals that we can measure to see if our efforts are successful. Without these benchmarks, it would be hard for us to know whether our work actually made a difference, or if you’re still encountering the same amount of AFKs.
WHAT HAVE WE DONE SO FAR?

March this year was our first foray into a system to find AFKs. The simplest version of this system (which is what we started with) was to look for people who had either disconnected from the game, or stayed completely inactive for a prolonged period of time.

This covers most AFKs (from internet going down, to rage-quitting, to cats), but it left us room to improve. Specifically, we didn’t yet cover the potentially more malicious AFKs: people who intentionally do not participate in the game, but stay “active” in the game so as to not get disconnected. These are often the worst to deal with—they intentionally look to ruin the experience of everyone, especially teammates.

To address these situations, we set trackers to look for specific behaviors and metrics in-game that we can then tie to AFKs. We can’t get into specific detail about those trackers (since revealing how we detect AFKs would make it easier for bad actors to bypass those rules). What we can say, however, is that our focus was to make the detection process heavily scalable. When a new behavior or method of detection is identified, it is very easy to look for it in our system (and take action when we find certain behaviors).

Finally, we wanted to make sure punishments for AFK were fair (forgiving for people who AFK on a rare occasion, but severe for serial leavers). To accomplish this, we created an AFK “rating” per player that tracks their AFK behavior across all of their games played. The more a player commits AFKs, the lower their rating becomes, and the harsher their punishment will be on a future violation.

In other words, if you’re a player who rarely or never goes AFK, then your AFK rating will be good, which means that if you do happen to accidentally AFK in a game, you won’t be punished severely (for example, you’d receive a warning message).

Conversely, if a player rage quits every other game, they’ll quickly find themselves going from receiving a warning, to XP denials, to queue restrictions, and eventually banned from playing the game as their rating tanks. Throughout the process of escalating penalties, they’ll have multiple explanations of why we took action, and what behavior they need to change...in case they come crying.

We also wanted to make sure we avoided edge cases, like leaving in the middle of a Deathmatch game. If a player AFKs in Deathmatch, the harshest punishment they will receive is denial of XP for the game that they were AFK in. This is because being AFK in a Deathmatch doesn’t ruin the experience of teammates (everyone is your enemy in Deathmatch). However, we did notice a sizable number of accounts who were farming XP in Deathmatch by entering a game and going AFK.

THE RESULT?

None of this talk matters unless it actually improves your experience playing VALORANT. So how do we find out what worked?

There’s a couple of data points that we look to measure this. We could spend a whole article talking about just the data (in terms of how we measure, potential biases, etc.), but here are some of our benchmarks:

AFKs Detected Over Time
AskVal_December_2021_Graph_1.jpg

To start, here’s our detected severe AFK rate (number of AFKs per game) over time in Unrated and Competitive games. For this graph, we define “severe” AFKs as anyone who is detected as AFK for 6 or more rounds in a match.

The AFK rate stays at a similar level for the first six or so months of launch, but we see detected AFKs take a dive in early 2021. This lines up with when we started implementing our improved AFK detection and penalties.

Overall, the AFK rate in games has more than halved over the last year! Things have once again stabilized at a new, lower value.

AFK Reports
One problem with measuring detected violations is that we don’t really know about AFKs that our system isn’t detecting. Overall, we’re confident that AFKs have gone down, but it’s unclear how much more work there is to be done. One way that we can measure whether you truly feel like you’re experiencing fewer AFKs is to look at report counts.

AskVal_December_2021_Graph_2.jpg

The top graph shows AFK “Report Rate,” the number of reports we receive for AFKs, normalized for hours played. The bottom graph shows the percent change in the AFK report rate over time since the start of the year. As you can see, after a drop in March, report rates are down around 17% since January.

There are some caveats: It could be the case that players “gave up” on reporting, but comparing report rates of other, non-AFK categories over time gives us confidence that this is a material change resulting from our work.

BETTER DETECTION, BETTER INFORMED

The good news from our work so far is that the various detections and interventions that we set in place to detect and penalize/deter AFKs seems to have made a meaningful impact on the frequency with which AFKs happen in your games.

But there’s more to be done!

For one, we can continue to improve detection. Since we first started work on AFKs, we broadened the different behaviors that qualify as an AFK in our system. As players get more… “creative” with how they AFK in game, so will our detection. The added bonus here is that a lot of the more clever AFK techniques tend to overlap with other unwanted behaviors in our game, such as intentionally feeding, griefing, or automated bot account farming (more on this in another article).

Second, we can keep you informed. Sharing both the process and results of our work to improve VALORANT’s community is an outlook to which we are committed. It’s something that you’ve told us you want. It’s one of the reasons we wanted to write these articles in the first place.

As we move ahead, we’ll continue to keep you posted on the state of the game, whether it be on the state of further reducing AFKs, or detecting and acting on some other behavior. What we ask in return is that you continue to provide questions, thoughts, feedback on what you want to see from us to make VALORANT a more safe, fun place to be.

You can find us on Twitter here and here (but we’re all over!).

Thanks for taking the time to read through this. Next time you hear from us, we’ll chat about toxic gameplay behaviors (friendly fire, sabotage, intentionally feeding, etc.).
Hi!

We’re devs who together work on Gameplay Systems in VALORANT—specifically the Social and Player Dynamics team (friends system, text and voice chat, and monitoring player behavior), as well as the Competitive team (competitive systems, MMR,and matchmaking)—here to lay out plans for a series of articles meant to go in-depth on some popular topics.

Something that you’ve voiced to us is that you want more transparency around the Competitive and Social & Player Dynamics (SPD for short) space. Sure, patch notes provide some updates of the things we changed in VALORANT, but we think it’s important to show the impact of our work so far and what’s ahead for this space.

Starting this week, we’ll begin to share a series of deep-dive articles, each of which will cover a very specific topic within our teams. Some articles will share more about the work that’s already happened (and the impact we’ve measured as a result) and some will focus more on planned or ongoing work in a certain area.

Below is the list of areas that we plan to cover. All articles are meant to be a way for you to learn more about topics that you’ve told us that you want to hear more about:

AFKs - Those players who stop playing in the middle of a game
Gameplay toxicity - Such as Intentionally feeding, friendly fire, etc.
Text/Voice chat toxicity - The people who ruin it for everybody
Smurfs, or secondary accounts - We know, probably our most requested topic
Matchmaking/match fairness - in Competitive queue
As we mentioned, we’re planning on releasing these articles periodically. The first topic we’ll dive into is AFKs in VALORANT, and it’s coming out tomorrow.

You can track the series as it updates by clicking the tag found at the bottom of this article.

One last thing! We’ve never done something like this before, so if you have feedback, comments, thoughts, please let us know. It’s possible we don’t hit every topic that you’ve raised concerns over, so if there’s something you don’t think we’ve covered that you’d like to see get some love, please tell us.

The best way is to keep posting your concerns/feedback on your favorite places (Discord, Reddit, etc.) and we’ll see them. Or find the authors of the respective articles above (when they post, we’ll include a link!). You can also always tag the comms team and they can share it right away.
Hi, I’m Joe Lansford, one of the level designers on VALORANT. Now that Fracture has entered the fray, the maps team wanted to take a moment to talk about its creation.

As a refresher, our maps design philosophy since day one on VALORANT is to push each map in a specific direction, instead of trying to accommodate ideal situations for each of the wild number of permutations that our weapons and abilities create. We build each map with a different hook that presents unique scenarios for you to problem solve.

We proposed the same challenge with Fracture and today Brian Yam, one of the lead artists on the maps team, will join me to break it down for you.

EARLY FISSURES - THE DESIGN QUESTION

You may have read by now that we started with the question, “what if attackers could pinch defenders from both sides of the map?” This exploration led to the “H-Shape” layout, ziplines, the four orbs, quadrants, and just about everything else that makes Fracture what it is.

With the novel strategic layer, we didn’t want to do anything too far out there for the moment-to-moment gunplay though, so hopefully you’ve found all that feeling fairly familiar.

It took us a while to get there though. We weren’t really sure what the H-shape was going to do and it required a lengthy iteration period to really lock it down. Here’s what the original looked like:

10072021-HighresScreenshot-inline.jpg

In this iteration, defenders only had a single rotation path through their spawn. There’s a very complex approach here through A Halls/Door area with an under-over (drop into A was also on this side), sites are completely different, there’s a path alongside ziplines, a wider map, etc. Lots of differences—I think the tunnel under B is about the only thing that didn’t change!

But the “footprint” was there. The team was sold on the core promise of the map, enough to work through the problems.

This led us to our next big breakthrough: a safer rotation for defenders through their spawn (it seems so simple in hindsight). This was critical for giving defenders more options in how they could set up and move. The previous version often ended in situations where post-plant attackers would have enough utility left to completely choke out defenders in their spawn.

10072021-HighresScreenshot2-inline.jpg

In the above image, you can see the defender structure start to take shape as well as both the sites looking much closer to what we have today. Not to mention some stand-in thematic development even as early as the greybox phase.

At one point, we tried an additional set of ziplines (as seen in the below mini map image) linking Arcade and Dish areas as well as a second bridge cutting across the middle of the map for attackers.

10072021-fracture_FogOfWar-inline.png

Once the defender area got sorted, the next big task to take on were all the neutral spaces. As you can see in the minimap above, these areas were quite different.

With the next few iterations, we wanted to make these areas a little more paced and desirable for defenders to take and hold—giving them an option to either push through and flank, or use as a retake position.

One of those areas, the Dish, was actually an idea that came from some concept references I was looking at after we decided on the desert direction for A side. A radar dish broken down in the desert was such a striking image, I felt I had to try to make the gameplay work (it was originally a good bit more complex and open).

10072021HighresScreenshot3-inline.jpg

After that, it was just lots of fine tuning.

For the visual theme, the team had a bunch of great ideas (one of our favorite parts of the map creation process is pitching visual themes), that I’m going to keep secret in case we use them in the future. But we were pretty excited about the idea of the dual biomes and it presented a great storytelling opportunity.

There are two factions working together in secret. Something goes wrong and the world is ripped apart. The visuals and gameplay both came together to deepen the world of VALORANT. (And our first in-game narrative content!)

WHAT HAPPENED HERE? - THE DESIGN QUESTION

Hello, this is Brian Yam, and I’m one of the art leads on the maps team. Now that you’ve read Joe on the design side (and spent some time playing Fracture), I’ll guide you on the visual development of Fracture in a similar way.

When Fracture’s theme was first conceived during the pitch phase, we wanted to push the idea that this map was visually split from it’s lore aspect, but also from a visual perspective. Since most of you generally identify a map through art visuals, the concept team wanted to capitalize on this.

For art the big question was this: “How can we create a visually compelling map that prompts players to question what happened here? What caused the split on both sides?” This was also an opportunity to help hint at the presence of Kingdom Omega into the narrative.

VISUAL DEVELOPMENT

Below is a very early sketch of the overall map from the greybox. In the initial concepts, our goal was to establish a visual direction of what this place is and why it exists in this space.

A compelling idea to us was to have a science facility sit atop of a canyon, partially hidden. To address the visual lore, we established two extreme contrasts that resulted from an experiment gone wrong. We went with a desert biome for Omega Sector and overgrown foliage with Alpha Sector, with the rift dividing both sides.

Artistically, this created a visual contrast in color palette of warm versus cool, and desertification against forestation. We thought you would also appreciate this contrast for callouts and memorizing each side distinctively.

10072021-Fracture_bluesky-inline.jpg

One of the most important concepts we typically establish early on at the end of “blue sky” development (where anything goes) is to create what we call a dollhouse. The next image is of a dollhouse for Fracture created by our senior concept artist, Theo Aretos. This high level concept helped establish the shape language, color palette, and general direction of the mood we wanted.

From there, the concept team starts to focus on more specific concepts within the greybox locations. The art team works closely with level designers to iterate on specific concepts within those locations.

10072021-dollhouse-inline.jpg

At this point we also want to get a clear concept of how the layout of the map will be from a top down view, which shows the overview of the map along with callouts noted with rough thumbnail concepts of where key locations are.

In the example below, this type of information was helpful for an initial art block out where 3D artists build a more refined 3D blockout over the level design greybox to reflect compositional and silhouette shapes inspired by our concept art .

10072021-Fracture_plan_layout_inline.jpg

Key Concepts

The following images are some of the key concepts that helped drive the artistic direction of the visual target for Fracture. These images are the final version of a concept for two areas (hopefully you recognize them) that provided a general direction for our 3D artists to hit.

10072021-overcast-inline.jpg

10072021-Asite_dish-inline.jpg

Concept to Art Blockout

For some background, the concept team initially completes the first stage concepts prior to initial “art blockout”. Typically, we establish roughly 70-75% completion of concepts in each area that are adequate for art blockout.

Art blockout is where we start building a rough 3D shell which represents the shapes of the architecture, landscape, and environment composition from the concept art which is tied closely to greybox parameters. Here’s are some examples on Fracture—

Greybox design mesh:

10072021-HighresScreenshot46-inline.jpg

Art blockout on attack spawn and dish:

10072021-HighresScreenshot697-inline.jpg

10072021-HighresScreenshot872-inline.jpg

A lot of collaboration between the design and art team happens here. The reason for this is because the level design is still undergoing changes after the art blockout is created, and many adjustments and tuning still needs to be done.

Art Production

This is the fun part! Now that we have all the nuances for gameplay and initial art block out pretty much locked down, this is where we go into production to finish up the final 3D art. The final art typically represents the concepts, but they can change along the way if we discover improvements.

It’s fun to watch players discover the lore and develop interpretations just through the art. In VALORANT tradition, how many tacti-bears can they find throughout this map?

10072021-HighresScreenshot12-inline.jpg

10072021-HighresScreenshot20-inline.jpg

And for the next map...here’s Joe again with the final word.

CHECK YOUR INBOX

It’s been really fun watching you solve the gameplay opportunities of Fracture. The meta is barely starting to form and everyone on the team is eager to see how it evolves over time.

As for what comes next on “map 8,” no spoilers, but you might find some clues in those Fracture emails. Hopefully they’re not lost in your spam folder.
As a follow up to our discussion several weeks ago about the Creation of Split, we wanted to provide clarity on our overall map creation process with a focus on our latest map, Ascent. As you might imagine, it takes quite a while for a map to evolve from initial idea to landing in your laps. Ascent was one of the very first maps that we put together on VALORANT and was the place where we developed and refined much of the core gameplay that you experience today.

It’s been on a long road...

The whole map process kicks off with a stage called Incubation. This is where the designer builds a proposal that establishes a design goal, clear constraints to work within and a unique visual experience for players. These proposals usually include top-down plans of the map and often contain simple 3D models that can be experienced in our engine.

Since Ascent was the foundational experience for VALORANT, the goal of this map was to create a traditional three-lane tactical experience that also allowed players to alter connections through the use of a mechanical door. It was designed to be a baseline experience for future maps to grow from.

Ascent_InArticle_Image_1.jpg
Once we have an idea that the team is excited about, we move into the Greybox phase of development, which can take anywhere from several months to several years. During this phase we build a rough model of the environment in our engine, set up all the core gameplay elements, roughly prototype new elements (like those mechanical doors), and then play it extensively.

The key here is to fail fast, playing new iterations of the map several times a week. This is where we dial-in every sightline, encounter distance, opening width and all the other nuances that you see in our maps today. We only leave Greybox once everyone feels confident in the intended design direction and when the map is playing really well.

Ascent’s creation coincided with the iteration of VALORANT itself, including further design on the impact of abilities, the power at range of each weapon, and even our IP direction—so Ascent stayed in Greybox for close to three years.

old_asc_1_rev_v2.jpg
This next phase of map development, Block-in, begins with concepts of the high-level vision for the visual experience. This two month process attempts to answer all lingering questions on the map. By the time this phase is complete, we want gameplay to be silky smooth and fully understand what every single structure and cover object looks like. Ideally, once a map leaves this phase all we are doing is executing on art. 

Ascent_InArticle_Image_2.jpg
During the early stages of Block-in we are also looking at the overall composition of the map and how it helps inform player orientation and navigation. Essentially we ask how can the art make the map play better? For example, how can we use architectural hierarchies in the map to reinforce the important parts of the game such as the objective sites and major routes of circulation?

AscentComps.gif
With Ascent, we started with the idea that a chunk of medieval Italy had been ripped out of the ground and thrown into the sky. We then needed to assess how this visual direction would integrate with the Greybox layout that was playing so well.

This is where ideas such as the central tower came into existence and where we started accentuating Site A, the high point of the map, with the domed basilica and Site B, the low point of the map, with the drained canal and boathouse.

Ascent_InArticle_Image_3.jpg
While the artists and designers tag team the Block-in process, Art Production responsibility falls squarely on the shoulders of the amazing artists of the Map team. Here we use the concepts finalized in Block-in to build an environment experience that is memorable for players and that also makes the map play better.

One rule that we try to adhere to is the idea of a clean gameplay zone across the map. This specifically means that we keep the majority of artistic detail of the map below about 1 foot in elevation or higher than 9 feet. The area in between, which we call the Clean Zone, then becomes a simplified space with high visibility. We want our agent silhouettes and especially the head to read very clearly as players putting rounds on target is key to winning the game.

Ascent_InArticle_Image_4_v2.jpg
Beyond this area, the artists can really use their talents to craft spaces that feel special. Art Production can last upwards of 6 months and also involves tasks such as adding ambient audio to help make each part of the map feel alive.

On Ascent, and all of our other maps, we spent a good deal of time identifying key points of interest (POIs) through statues and murals that again helped players orient themselves.

You can see this with callouts such as Courtyard, Garden and Market.

AscentProgression_02.gif
Although this process can take up to a year to complete, Ascent took close to five years as it continued to evolve along with the game itself. It has been a long journey but in many ways we are just getting started. In patch 1.02, we reduced some of the angle complexity on the map and we will continue to improve things with the help of all of you.

As always, thanks for the continued feedback and we will see you out there on the floating isle!
Howdy folks! My name is Chris Carney and I am the Lead Level Designer on VALORANT. Today, along with the legendary Level Designer Sal Garrozzo, we will be discussing the question: Where did the Split come from and how did we bring it from a loose, rough idea to a polished launch experience?

Loading_Screen_Split_v2.jpg
The design philosophy behind our maps on VALORANT is relatively simple. We have a wide range of characters with an array of abilities who can also wield a multitude of weapons. Instead of trying to create maps that all provide an equal number of ideal combat situations for the crazy number of permutations, we instead push each map in a specific direction.

For example, on Bind we ask “what if we remove the middle area of the map (i.e. “Mid”), which typically provides flanking opportunities on a traditional two objective map?” How would that affect the way five-player teams play defense or how they attack? Can we even build a map that works well with this constraint? This becomes the design goal of the map.

The intent here is not to have a “gimmick” for each map, but instead to center the map around a specific gameplay experience that we can create with the map geometry. We also evaluate new map mechanics, such as one-way teleporters or ascenders, and see how these can help us achieve this goal.

With a clear target, we are then able to evaluate if this type of experience works well for VALORANT. If the map does not play well when we start playtesting, we can determine if we are just executing on it poorly or if our goal is wrong for the game. However, if it’s working well, we can then focus on how to make it better. Each map becomes a new challenge for players to solve. This creates gameplay diversity within our map roster while allowing certain characters and team compositions to shine.

As you can imagine, it doesn’t always work out. There are greybox levels (a “greybox” is our earliest playable version of a map) that will never see the light of day. On the other hand, some levels have withstood the test of time and have gone through literally years of iteration to earn a spot on our final roster.

Split is one of these experiences.

THE BUILD
For Split, the question focused on whether or not we could create an off-site position that was essential to defending or capturing each site. To put it even more simply, could a tactical map play like King of the Hill?

01
02
The original design had a single tower in the center with bullet proof glass that allowed Defenders to see the approach of the Attackers. During playtesting, we found that the tower did indeed provide an off-site position that was critical to hold, but it was too powerful and pulled too much combat away from the objective sites themselves. So we decided to break the tower into two smaller towers that focused on each site.

The next version pushed more of the action to the objective sites with Mid giving players access to the new smaller towers. Instead of looking at Attacker spawn, these two spots overlooked each objective site and provided strong overwatch as Attackers or Defenders. It started creating unique gameplay opportunities that worked well within the game. Taking a tower helped Attackers take the sites.

We were onto something! However, Mid was still too critical and the overwatch positions were also too disconnected from the sites themselves.

01
02
The third major revision firmly connected the towers to the sites which allowed them to be a core part of the combat around the objectives. Players could jump out of the towers onto the sites and use ladders to travel in the reverse direction. While these elements worked well, Mid unfortunately had become a large, porous mess of connections and was still the main hotzone on the map. We had some work to do.

The best solution was to break Mid into two halves and then connect these directly with hallways, which became the “Vent” and “Sewer” that you experience today. This allowed us to divide Mid combat into focusing on attacking and defending each tower. In addition, we further crafted the objective sites where ignoring control of the tower would make holding the site itself more difficult. Our goal of creating off-site positions that were essential to each site was working.

We finally had something that the team was excited about and it was time to move the map into Art Production.

MAKING IT REAL
While Split was undergoing all of these revisions, VALORANT had moved through several thematic directions and was now focusing on locations inspired by real places on Earth. The foundation of VALORANT’s combat model has always focused on tactical shooting using real world weapons with a few spectacular moments punctuated by the use of abilities. We wanted the world to reflect this as well.

biggestboi_v2.jpg
Split was now a Japanese city under a dramatic transformation as Kingdom transformed the daily lives of everyday citizens while increasing its footprint. This new direction provided city courtyards and alleys that would match up well with the layout of the map, while also adding a few futuristic moments of spectacular goodness. The Map Art team then went about creating an incredible old world city that lives under the shadow of a massive Kingdom R&D facility.

Since we always want our art to help clarify gameplay, and each area around the towers and objectives needed to be clearly memorable, we divided up the map into two distinct sectors. B Site was to be the older district in the city, while A Site was to be part of an ever expanding, new Kingdom tech campus. Each part of the city would also be anchored around a Raidanite Generator which would identify the objective sites.

01
02
Cities can be visually overwhelming and player orientation and navigation are always critical. We want players executing strategies and fighting enemies rather than fighting the layout of the map. By separating the map into two distinct visual themes we were able to generate unique places of interest (POIs) that complemented each side of the city. These POIs are critical to the design of any map and, along with a clean composition of space, help players build an easy mental map of how the places connect.

In the end, Split was released and we continue to refine these ideas with the help of players. Patch 1.0 included further revisions to the Mid section connecting to B tower and we will still be watching and evaluating how everything is working.

Look for more stories about the maps in our launch roster in the future. Meanwhile—see you in the city!
Hey everyone! I'm Lydia Zanotti, a 3D environment artist on VALORANT. With the release of Icebox, I thought it was the right time to bring you in from the cold and discuss how we bring our maps to life, from the inside out.

The VALORANT maps team is fairly small, and consists of level designers, 3D, concept, lighting, and QA. It's a real collaborative feat getting a map from greybox (the earliest playable version of a map) to a version that's ready for you, the player.

Icebox_Splash_v2.jpg
When it comes to maps, level design normally grabs most of the attention, and rightfully so, as designers spend months working on the greybox-playtesting and tweaking them until they are ready to hand off to the artists.

Today you're going to hear from the 3D artist perspective. That's me, the person who works on models, textures, sculpts, paint, shaders, and building the overall visual world. I hope to give you some insight into the challenges, successes, and misconceptions of crafting map environments.

If you want a closer look at how we approach level design, check out this story on the creation of Split.

AFTER LEVEL DESIGN
Icebox_Dollhouse_v2.jpg
Before 3D artists can touch a map, our Art Lead and Creative Director work very high level with the concept artists to iterate on finding an iconic look for our maps using a series of blue-sky concepts. At this stage there's a lot of back and forth between the artist and project leadership to make sure the map follows the VALORANT narrative, is marked by visual variety, and most importantly, is something the team is really excited to be working on.

After a high-level direction has been locked down, concept artists begin to tackle specific locations and call-outs on the map based on the greybox layout. At this stage, the concept artists try to get as much coverage on the map before the 3D artists jump in and begin modeling the basic shapes of the architecture.

Icebox_ConceptB_v2.jpg
MAP FOUNDATIONS
Our map production pipeline can be broken down into several phases: greybox, art blockout, and art production.

Our maps are completely built using Unreal Engine 4, and the majority of the team uses Maya for 3D modeling (though a few of us use 3ds Max).

gif_IceboxProg3.gif
As we start to model the maps, we try to playtest them on a weekly basis to get a feel for the spaces, check for bugs, make sure there is accurate collision, and to spot areas that are too noisy or compete visually with our Agents.

The level designers can make changes to the spaces as we're modeling them, and we have to pivot to those changes when necessary. This often happens during the art blockout and early stages of building the maps. Since concepts and layouts can shift, it's better to work with simple shapes during the blockout phase to avoid having to re-do work.

Two good examples of this can be seen in the Icebox blockout phases of "kitchen" and "mid," where changes were made to give some spaces more breathing room.:

gif_IceboxProg2.gif gif_IceboxProg1.gif
OUT OF BOUNDS
Our main goal on the maps team is to not only provide the player with a beautiful looking map, but to provide one that also runs well. We may start with ambitious concepts, but at some point we have to reasonably limit how creative we can get. This is due to either having to adhere to the greybox layout, or because of performance constraints.

Performance is super important in tactical shooters, and we spend a lot of time working with engineers when we finish a map to clean it up and have it running as smoothly as possible. There are many ways we do this and there are always trade-offs like having to sacrifice visual quality to get a small performance gain. Those small gains add up, and they matter.

Optimizing a map is simple, however, as we can gather data to see what textures are taking up the most memory in the map, or which areas of the map have too many draw calls (or amount of assets in view). To help with this, we can "instance" meshes-meaning that if there is a pile of the same 20 rocks, we can instance them together, so that the engine reads them as one mesh. This helps us immensely as we populate the maps with a ton of props.

CONSTRUCTION, MINUS THE HARD HATS
For some insight into my personal work on Icebox, most of my time was spent on the B-site half of the map. When I began work on the Spike plant area, I was provided several concepts to work from to get an idea and feel for what I'm about to create. While we don't have to stick to the concepts 100%, we do make sure that we stick to the greybox.

We often export the greybox meshes and then 3D model over them so that the walls and edges line up perfectly. This is especially important in areas with heavy gameplay (more on that later).

Icebox_ConceptA_v2.jpg
We try to model and get the basic architectural shapes into the map before starting to unwrap and texture them. When we start to add colors on the meshes, we make sure that they aren't too dark, especially in interior spaces. The objective here is to maintain gameplay integrity by making sure that the environment doesn't impede with clarity, and that the characters are always clearly visible.

gif_IceboxProg4_reduced.gif
As far as texturing goes, we primarily use tiling textures and trim sheets on our buildings and large structures. These are created using a variety of programs such as Zbrush, Substance Designer, Substance Painter, and Photoshop. We do use custom textures on props when needed, such as the coffee machine in the kitchen, or the forklift near A-site.

MORE ON MAP CLARITY
Again, while our artist goals are to carry out the look and feel of a map, it is always subordinate to gameplay clarity and making sure the Agents are always clearly visible when they should be.

To help with visual noise, we make sure that our materials are similar in value and there isn't too much contrast or darkness. We can also improve clarity by using lights to illuminate dark areas, or to spotlight spaces where you would want the most visibility possible, such as a Spike plant site or a commonly peeked corner.

01
02
MAP MOTIFS
The sky's the limit on the maps we make -- for the most part. Adding graffiti, props, and small details to the map is how we tell a story to the players. When it comes to details, we try to keep the majority of it above player height so that the angles and peeks are simple and clear. We also consider designing areas in a way where it can actually help to guide your crosshair placement.

For theming and call-outs on the maps, it’s best to come up with ones that are simple and easily understood to avoid the pain of hearing your teammates scream “over there!” when really they mean “garage” or “market.”

We also consider callouts that are quick and easy to say while in the heat of a match. Some of our callouts are very obvious, such as “kitchen.” In other cases, we try to use colors as a way to help distinguish certain areas and structures, like the yellow shipping container on B-site.

01
04
Fun with storytelling and worldbuilding is probably the best part about being an environment artist. Each artist working on the map gets to add their own flavor to their sections of the ma—and sometimes even secretly sneak in a Tacti-bear somewhere. We use our best judgement and follow concepts where provided, but if we have cool ideas or something inspires us, we let that creative energy out into the maps.

One way we add more visual interest and story into the maps while sticking to greybox is to build outside of the gameplay space. An example of this would be the Bunker built into the glacier wall on B-site. Inside, I created an interesting storage space with a curving tunnel, without having to worry about gameplay since the player can’t go into this area anyway.

Hello! I’m Aaron Cheney, a software engineer on VALORANT’s Performance team. Performance is a key component to maintaining VALORANT’s competitive integrity, and our team is the one responsible for monitoring, maintaining, and improving both server and client performance.

We’re excited to provide an update on a feature that has been in development for several months: Global Invalidation. We’ll get into the details of the feature shortly, but first let’s spend some time looking at how this feature has impacted client performance since patch 4.03.

Spoiler alert: it’s pretty awesome.

AskVal_March22_Global_Invalidation_Graph_3.jpg

Global Invalidation has provided significant improvements for a large part of our player base. In fact, it’s the single largest performance gain for clients since launch.

Although these charts are exciting—and we’re thrilled with the results—it’s important to understand exactly what you’re looking at. We work with large, complex data sets; organizing, filtering, and controlling the data helps us understand the player experience. Here’s what you need to keep in mind to understand the full picture:

The chart plots “patch” vs. “average FPS”; higher numbers are better.
Each line represents a common hardware configuration (CPU+GPU pairing) from among our player base. When analyzing performance data, we consider this pairing to be the most important predictor for expected performance. Machines with the same CPU+GPU pairing are aggregated together in these charts.
The data samples are taken from two queues: Unrated and Competitive. Since these are the most popular game modes in VALORANT, we spend a great deal of effort to understand and improve performance in these areas.
We’ve excluded games that don’t have exactly 10 players. This ensures outliers don’t skew the data (games with fewer players perform better).
SUMMARY OF GLOBAL INVALIDATION
global-invalidation-summary-flow.jpg

Global Invalidation delivers up to 15% gains for CPU-bound clients (generally mid to high spec machines). Realizing these gains was an effort that spanned multiple teams and took many months to complete. Our process for identifying areas of the game ripe for optimization paid off, and managing risk along the way helped ensure a stable experience for players.

WHO BENEFITS, AND CALIBRATING EXPECTATIONS
Based on our live metrics, Global Invalidation has delivered up to <X>% improvement for client configurations that are CPU-bound (generally mid to high spec machines).

While the upward trend is noticeable in the aggregate, it doesn’t represent moment-to-moment gameplay. Additionally, it doesn’t guarantee that every machine with matching hardware will see identical results.

This means the baseline performance for VALORANT on CPU-bound machines has generally increased, but exactly how your specific machine will perform is dependent on a number of other factors unique to you.

UNDERSTANDING GLOBAL INVALIDATION
Before we can properly give an overview of Global Invalidation, we first need to explain a bit about UI elements in the Unreal Engine.

WIDGETS AND TREE STRUCTURES
UI elements (also known as Widgets) are created from smaller building blocks using a tree structure. The tree structure is analogous to the file system on your computer. A Widget can have any number of children (just like a folder can have any number of files).

These building blocks can be combined to create complex Widgets. Our ammo counter, for example, consists of many parts, and the tree looks something like the following:

Screenshot_2022-03-07_at_16-30-57_PRF_-_Global_Invalidation_article.png

Putting it all together, the ammo counter building blocks look like the following:

AskVal_March22_Valorant_UI_Elements.jpg

(The green outlines above are exaggerated for clarity. In practice, many of the outlines would overlap.)

Whenever one or more Widgets change within the tree structure, it can affect multiple other Widgets. For example, if a Widget moves to a new position on screen, all Widgets underneath need to recalculate their position as well. These changes are managed by a system called “Invalidation,” which we’ll talk about in the next section.

INVALIDATION
Invalidation is the mechanism the Unreal Engine uses to indicate when a particular Widget has changed and needs to be updated.

A Widget needs to be invalidated for a variety of reasons: animation, color, opacity, size, ordering, text, images, and many other properties can change in response to something that happens in the game. When these changes happen to a Widget, it’s “Invalidated,” signaling that it needs to be updated.

Complicating this process a bit more, a Widget can have multiple types of invalidation. A few types include:

Layout - When the size of a Widget changes (very expensive).
Paint - When the look of the Widget has changed, but hasn’t changed size.
Child Order - When the order of Widgets has changed within the tree (also implies Layout, and is therefore expensive).
Visibility - When the visibility of a Widget has changed, either becoming invisible or becoming visible (also implies Layout, and is therefore expensive).
These types of invalidation are used to signify what kinds of operations must be performed to draw it properly.

It gets even more complicated when one Widget depends on another Widget. Widgets are organized into hierarchies, and their layout is dependent on a number of factors. Invalidating a single Widget may require invalidating a number of related Widgets to properly draw. For example, if multiple Widgets are organized into a vertical layout (e.g. the Social Panel with your friends list), and the order of Widgets changes (e.g. a friend comes online), all Widgets within the vertical layout need to be updated.

There are several goals with a system like this:

Invalidate as few Widgets as possible. This reduces the number of Widgets that have to be updated in order to draw properly.
Only invalidate a Widget when necessary. Improperly invalidating a Widget wastes precious CPU cycles.
When a Widget isn’t invalidated, cache the result to quickly draw it every frame. If nothing changes, then CPU cycles can be saved.
That’s enough of a look under-the-hood to understand how Widgets update and what kinds of things can cause invalidation. Next, we’ll look at how developers put this into practice.

INVALIDATION BOXES
Unreal Engine provides a component—called an Invalidation Box—to group multiple Widgets together. All Widgets contained within a single Invalidation Box are prevented from getting pre-passed, ticked, or painted. Instead, the result is cached into a vertex buffer.

Whenever one of the Widgets within the Invalidation Box is invalidated, the cached data is discarded and the Widget gets updated and painted again. While refreshing the cache may be expensive for a single frame, the amortized result is far better in the long run.

Invalidation Boxes are a key part of making VALORANT’s UI performant, especially as we worked toward launch. However, they’re not entirely free:

Developers need to understand which Widgets are good candidates for grouping together with an Invalidation Box. Any Widget that updates regularly isn’t suited for this.
Placing Widgets within an Invalidation Box takes manual work on the part of a developer. It’s not feasible to do for every Widget in the game, and therefore developers must also understand which Widgets are worth putting into an Invalidation Box.
To read more about Invalidation Boxes, check out Epic’s documentation.

Now we have enough context to talk about Global Invalidation!

ENTER GLOBAL INVALIDATION
By this point you may be thinking to yourself, “Why not just put every UI element into a global Invalidation Box?” Well, that’s precisely what Global Invalidation does (more or less).

Global Invalidation aims to significantly improve UI performance across the whole game while also reducing manual work required of developers to place Widgets in individual Invalidation Boxes. It’s the best of all worlds.

However, as of UE4.25 (the version of the Unreal Engine that VALORANT uses), Global Invalidation isn’t universally supported for all Widget types. Later versions of the Unreal Engine have made improvements, but VALORANT couldn’t take advantage of that right away. Additionally, we didn’t have a great understanding for how much faster Global Invalidation would make VALORANT.

Here’s where our work began.

WHY DID WE DECIDE TO DO THIS WORK?
In late July of 2021, the team decided to take Global Invalidation for a testrun during an internal playtest. Minor changes were made to fix a few bugs so the playtest could successfully complete. However, we knew bugs would surface during the playtest… and we certainly found bugs.

By the end of the playtest, we’d collected around 20 bugs—and those were just the obvious ones. It was likely more subtle, insidious bugs were waiting to be found, not to mention several edge cases that hadn’t been specifically tested.

But… did Global Invalidation deliver performance gains? It absolutely did.

Analyzing the data generated from that single playtest, it was determined that UI was ~35% faster. (Note: UI is only part of the cost for a single frame.)

However, we still had many open questions:

How much time is needed to fix all of the bugs?
Which team(s) should be responsible for the work?
Does this take priority over other planned work? To meet regular content releases, our schedules are often set months in advance and emergent work–even something as exciting as this–is hard to fit in the schedule.
Would fixing the bugs take away from the performance gains? Fixing all of the bugs would require many code changes, each of which has the potential to cause UI to become more expensive.
When should we do this work? Knowing that Global Invalidation was being actively developed in later Unreal Engine versions meant we needed to consider our timeline for integrating changes from Epic.
Ultimately, we decided the work was worthwhile for a couple reasons.

UNREAL ENGINE INTEGRATIONS AND TIMING CONSIDERATIONS
Although Unreal Engine 4.26 and 4.27 have made significant progress on Global Invalidation, VALORANT works on a delayed integration schedule. The reason we don’t work on the “bleeding edge” is to manage risk and ensure stability for our players.

Since our schedule meant we would stay on Unreal Engine 4.25 for many more months, this meant players wouldn’t get to benefit from these performance gains for well over a year. That didn’t sit well with us.

For more details on how VALORANT thinks about Unreal Engine upgrades, check out this Twitter thread from VALORANT’s Tech Lead, Marcus Reid.

KNOWN PERFORMANCE GAINS
Global Invalidation represented something really unique in terms of performance work: measured value. We measured the potential gains during an internal playtest, and the path to deliver that value was (mostly) clear.

Performance work is difficult. It’s a game of inches, not miles; incremental changes help generally improve performance over time, and it’s rare to find a single change capable of delivering double-digit gains. This was too juicy of an optimization to leave on the table.

Even after accounting for diminished gains due to bug fixes, Global Invalidation was the best chance for us to deliver significant gains for players within a reasonable amount of time.

HOW DID WE ACCOMPLISH THIS WORK?
Although initial experimentation around Global Invalidation began in late July 2021, earnest effort on stabilizing the feature didn’t start until late September 2021.

SELECTIVELY INTEGRATING EPIC’S CHANGES
Fully integrating Unreal Engine 4.26 and 4.27 was off the table, but since we knew Epic had actively worked on Global Invalidation, we decided to dig through thousands of changes and identify which changes were likely to get us closer to a stable, fully-functioning Global Invalidation.

Partially integrating changes was a challenging task. It was important to modify as few core engine features as possible to maintain stability while pulling in the right changes from Epic. All of this work was done in a separate branch from the main VALORANT branch to prevent impacting other developers.

After selectively integrating Epic’s changes into our engine, we spent several more weeks fixing as many bugs as possible while we prepared to introduce Global Invalidation into the main VALORANT branch. Along the way a toggle was created to let us quickly enable and disable the feature (should anything catastrophic occur).

With many bugs fixed, and with many of Epic’s changes from 4.26 and 4.27, we merged from our isolated branch back into the main branch.

FINDING COMMONALITIES BETWEEN BUGS
Although many of the bugs with Global Invalidation manifested in different ways, the root cause could often be traced back to a single issue. These were the most valuable bugs to fix, as doing so could eliminate multiple issues with a single change. One change, for example, fixed 10+ bugs that were scattered throughout the game. Careful analysis of the root problem led to robust solutions that improved the reliability and stability of Global Invalidation.

IDENTIFY BUGS, FIX BUGS, PLAYTEST, RINSE AND REPEAT
The following weeks and months involved a regular cycle of enabling Global Invalidation before a playtest, identifying a series of bugs, disabling Global Invalidation after the playtest, and fixing those bugs.

developer-bug-fix-flow.jpg


Fewer bugs were reported with each iteration of the loop. We continued doing this until the steady stream of bugs turned into a slow drip, and eventually stopped.

By the end of November 2021, all of the major issues were resolved and Global Invalidation was largely stable.

NOTABLE BUGS
Astra crashes the game - At one point, every Astra player was greeted with a crash upon loading into the game. This bug was fixed after integrating changes from Epic.
Multiple inheritance crash - Multiple inheritance in C++ is a tricky subject. Without getting too far into the weeds, the order of destructors in a particular class did not execute in the right order, causing a crash. Simply swapping 2 lines of code to change the inheritance order fixed the problem. To read more about multiple inheritance, check out this page.
Infinite chat audio - While in the menus, the chat bar plays a sound when you hover over it with the mouse. To the annoyance of everyone, a bug caused that audio to play multiple times a second. Fixing this bug involved understanding the timing of how Widgets receive mouse events multiple times a frame.
TESTING METHODOLOGIES
One element of Global Invalidation that made us particularly cautious (and therefore thorough with our testing) is that it affects every aspect of the game. Literally.

Your friends list? Absolutely. The button you press to queue up? That too. The settings menu? You betcha. My headshot percentage? Well…

The point is that UI elements exist throughout the game, and they often convey critical information to players. Breaking even one of those UI elements was unacceptable.

To that end, our QA department created a testing plan with multiple strategies to build confidence that Global Invalidation was working as intended.

VERTICAL SLICE TESTING
A “vertical slice” of VALORANT represents the main path players generally take, from launching the client, to queuing up for a match, to playing a full game, to interacting with the end-of-game screen. By focusing on the critical elements of the game, QA could quickly test the most used elements of the game and identify problems early.

DESTRUCTIVE TESTING
Where vertical slice testing leaves off, destructive testing picks up. This type of testing is intended to identify off-nominal issues, often by modifying external factors (such as network ping, frame rate, alt-tabbing, etc.). Armed with a set of internal tools, QA spent several weeks doing destructive testing.

EDGE CASE TESTING
Many parts of VALORANT are only experienced by a small percentage of the player base. Some parts of the game are only ever experienced once (e.g. the New Player Experience). Just because those parts of the game are less traversed, it doesn’t make them less important. Identifying and testing all of our edge cases helped catch hidden errors.

PBE (PUBLIC BETA ENVIRONMENT) TESTING
PBE was a major milestone for Global Invalidation.

It was the first time outside players could test the feature. This meant that Global Invalidation could be tested under “real world” conditions.
PBE represents a variety of hardware specifications. PBE intentionally covers the range from low to high specs, and testing with such a large range of player devices helped us build confidence in how well Global Invalidation would perform across the wider player base.
After testing on PBE during the weekend of Jan. 22, 2022 - Jan. 23, 2022, we had confidence that Global Invalidation didn’t interfere with integrity and that performance gains were in line with our predictions.

RELEASING GLOBAL INVALIDATION
After launching Global Invalidation with Patch 4.03, we closely monitored player reports for bugs. We also kept a close eye on the performance data to confirm our estimations matched the results. In the end, Global Invalidation was a huge success for players, and we hope you enjoy the improved frame time.

Now that Global Invalidation is out in the world, the Performance team is going back to work on delivering even more gains. Until next time, happy fragging!
Hey, it’s David ‘Milkcow’ Cole, VALORANT game designer. We shipped a game! We have a live game! And with going live to you, we now have a responsibility to maintain the live experience— most importantly—game balance.

From as far back as our Alpha, there has been a group of Content Designers, QA, and Insights setting up the foundations of game balance and health, so that when we hit the live phase of VALORANT (that’s now), we would have a rough understanding of what is healthy, overpowered, underpowered, etc. Hopefully this article will shed some light into how we’ve been approaching balance and where we want to end up.

BALANCE DO’S AND DON’TS
Game balance is something that every player feels and may have some opinions about. The experiences all of you have and feel shape your perceptions of the game—your perception is your truth. It’s our job to provide an experience that is fair for every player. With that being said, here’s what we will and won’t do:

We’ll prioritize audiences that we think take the game in the right direction in its current state. We’ll have to make tradeoffs with which audience we’re aiming to balance for—it won't be every player
We won’t make every player happy with our changes. Sometimes we’ll need to make or not make changes that go against what our players want for the greater game.
We’ll rely on human judgement to contextualize game data. We won’t be entirely data driven.
We won’t seek a perfect 50/50 balance. When everything is 50/50 across the board the decisions per session become less meaningful—you could say.. robotic and formulaic. The human element of making decisions provides decision points that players can weigh the tradeoffs of.
We’re holding true to our guiding principles—what we call “the tac cycle.” No matter what, the game must uphold the values of the tac cycle in order to be healthy.

Balance_Tac_Cycle_Image.jpg
A quick breakdown of the tac cycle: Intel → Plan → Execute → Repeat.

Intel
Who and where are your opponents?
What has taken place up to the current state of the game?
What territory of the map do we own? Do the opponents own?
Which Agents, abilities and guns are in play?
What have your opponents done previously?
Plan
With the information we’ve gathered from intel what is my plan?
Execute
Timing
Coordinating to implement the plan
Abilities
Critical part of reducing the risk of your plan
Shooting
Click heads to close out engagements.
VALORANT is a game where every decision in this loop matters. You are aware of the decisions you’ve made and their outcomes. You can have the perfect intel and plan, but mechanically fail to execute. You can have no plan, yet win by mechanically executing the impossible. Your skill matters.

It's important that this loop happens for every player at every level of play. It starts when you find a match and your map is shown, the characters you pick as a composition, the round you're about to play, and when you’re in that 1v2 clutch on B site.

BALANCE RADAR
Our group has been working to set up a process for how we make decisions and gather information over the last 6 months—kind of like building our own balance radar. This has consisted of creating a process of diverse information inputs.

Balance_Inputs_Process_Image.jpg
On the balance group, we have three primary sources of information that we take in to inform our decisions. Each of them are incredibly important to help to determine whether the live state of the game is healthy or whether we need to intervene and nudge it back on track.

Game Data: These are data that tell us what’s actually happening in the game on any given patch - match winrates, defender/attacker round winrates, agent pickrates, weapon purchase rates, etc. It paints the picture for us from which to make decisions.

Sentiment Data: While we are committed to ensuring VALORANT is a balanced game for our players, we also want to make sure that we’re creating an experience that is enjoyable for players overall. To ensure we’re meeting our goals here, we send player surveys periodically to understand how they feel about the current state of the game: what’s fun, what’s frustrating, etc. This helps us interpret game data, but also lets us understand if there are experience issues that aren’t represented in the game data.

Design Philosophy: Finally, the balance team leverages its own design philosophy when making decisions to drive the game towards what we feel is the right direction. Ultimately, game and sentiment data help us understand the state of the game and our playerbase on any given patch, but our design philosophy fundamentally informs how we feel about that state—it defines the goals we’re aiming to hit.
During our time together as a balance group, we’ve used a combination of game data, sentiment data, and our design philosophy to align on a set of “bounds.” Think of them as borders—when our metrics live inside the borders, we feel the game is fairly healthy. If something dips outside of these borders, it raises a flag and we investigate. We’re not ready to share the numbers of these bounds yet, but the graph below has an example of how we think about bounds on different types of content.

These are examples of statements, not true facts!

ALERTS

Agent overall

Agent by map

Agent by side

Start side winrate

Round side winrate

Upper bounds

“Sage is busted”

“Raze on Split is too strong”

“Cypher is too good on defense”

“If I start on attack on Split I have a higher chance of winning the match”

“Split is too defender-sided”

Lower bounds

“Viper is trash”

“Jett is bad on Bind”

“Cypher can’t do anything on offense”

Weapons. Where do I begin? Weapons are incredibly complex when contextualized in-game. The data itself does not tell you the story of their impact and we’re still figuring out the exact details of them.

Another part of this process is developing a voice and communicating our changes and reasons in patch notes:

.47+
.49
.50
1.0
1.01
And lastly, we embed ourselves into the ecosystem. We have people on the team playing at a high level, communicating with key individuals for feedback and constantly reading any feedback we can get.

CASE STUDY: RAZE
Here’s an example of how all the above pieces come together: Raze was released as strong vs other Agents and lots of vocal sentiment grew about her existence in VALORANT.

This is how the team used the steps above to get to our changelist for Raze in the .47+ patch.

Excal, Morello, and the rest of our balance group were aligned that Raze’s kit fits the tac cycle and did not break the loop. She was one of our first kits that this project had designed, and she had helped shape the cycle itself.
We immediately looked at the data. She had a high match win rate of ~51% and 53.5% in non-mirrored matches, especially on defense against enemies that were grouped up charging her position. This did not trigger our initial alerts that we had set in Closed Beta. We quickly realized that power in our game was in the measures of .1%’s rather than 1%’s. We tightened the bands later on as the conversations internally around Raze were that she was OP relative to other Agents.
We looked at player sentiment. Streams, surveys, anecdotes, forums—anything we could find. There was a lot of frustration about being rocketed and naded but when we dug into it, we realized that players were not reacting to the audio cues of her abilities and had a hard time understanding what was happening to them outside of the fact that they were now dead.
Excal did an analysis writeup with the information we had acquired and proposed some changes:
Having two grenades that she could throw back to back created an oppressive scenario for players trying to push into her. Raze players were getting a lot of kills which in turn gave her access to her Ultimate more often.
Players were not reacting to the counterplay cues of her abilities which caused more frustration.
We made changes and tested them internally.
Grenade charges went from 2 to 1 and became a reset on kill. This change lowered the frequency in which opponents would run into the nades but still give the Raze player the opportunity to continually blow stuff up. It was a great change that fit her core identity—kill them.
The audio attenuation of her Rocket fire and equip were changed drastically to really tell players that they needed to vacate the area.
We put them into the patch notes and added context to our reasonings.
We monitored the player's reaction and sentiment to the patch notes. They liked the direction we were taking her but were still skeptical about Raze in general. Her win rate directly took a hit but not by much. Yet, the perception was that she is in a much more balanced state.
We followed up in later patches using the direction we had set in .47+.
There have been countless amounts of iteration on all of these pieces above to get them to where they are today and we’ll continue to evolve these as we learn how you're playing VALORANT.

Thank you for reading my Dave Talk and if you enjoyed reading, there’s more to come in the future!
With the recent release of our DUALITY cinematic, I wanted to talk about where it sits within the wider VALORANT Universe, answer a few popular questions, and give tease where we’re headed.

It's been a year since we launched VALORANT! I think it’s safe to say it’s been a wild year for all of you as well. Now, take a moment to reflect and go back in time with me to the moment that VALORANT launched.

DUELIST, introduced two of our Agents, Phoenix & Jett, in a high stakes chase across the rooftops of a European city, for control over a mysterious “package.”


At the conclusion, we witnessed the IGNITION of this package, creating a significant reality distorting effect on a major city, triggering battles across the globe.

Our latest cinematic, DUALITY, starts where DUELIST left off and sheds light on VALORANT’s underlying conflict.

The day after IGNITION, the world is in shock. VALORANT PROTOCOL—a covert operation set up to prevent just such disasters—scrambles to make sense of the unfolding events. Analysis of Venice and the remnants of the package suggests the detonation of a device harnessing the power of Radianite, previously thought to be a clean and safe source of energy.

VALORANT Agents locate another of these devices at a Kingdom site in Morocco. When placed into the ground, this “Spike” goes through its activation sequence. With short time, can our Agents work together to neutralize the device, and prevent another disaster?

Can they overcome their biggest foes, which turn out to be...themselves?


As the Creative Director on VALORANT, I help make sure that we present a distinct and cohesive universe that sets up a central conflict, stakes, and goals that map the experience and stakes for you. I work with all our teams to ensure the content we release feels connected and that over time, reveals more and more about the VALORANT universe, in and outside the game.

“Narrative Dissonance,” is a term in videogame development that is used to describe games that have characters and a story that feel out of step with the actual gameplay.

For example, think of a game with deep lore, sophisticated backstories, and then you jump into the game and you smash each other or shoot each other. Believe me, it’s not necessarily a problem, some of my favorite games get along fine and they're amazing!

However, we wanted to do something special for VALORANT that would add dimension to the lore. Could we ground our 5v5 defend/attack conflict, between the ‘same’ pool of Agents experienced in the playspace, and craft a central conflict in which it would make sense?

This is all to say, I’m excited to peel back the layers more, as we explore this theme of Duality and ponder these questions together:

Who are these ‘mirror’ Agents?
Are they two sides of the same coin?
Why is one side seemingly acting as the aggressor?
What is the meaning of that final shot of Earth that seems almost split in two?
We are one year in but the journey is just beginning. We can’t wait to share more with you over the next year as we answer more of your questions and no doubt pose new ones!
We’re Sara (Producer, aka “Riot necrotix”) and Lea (Strategist, aka “Riot aeneia”), part of the crew that leads the Social and Player Dynamics team (S&PD) on VALORANT.

Our team owns all the social features in-game, and we work together with other teams to address issues and opportunities with player behavior. Last year, we promised to address some of the pain points you’ve experienced in-game with other players.

Today is our long-awaited update: We’ve taken all of your feedback to heart, and we are at the point where we can confidently share what we’ve been up to.

Before we dig in, we want to acknowledge the obvious: we still have a lot of work ahead of us. These changes are just the start, but they set the stage for the work we’ll continue to deliver in the months and years ahead. We hope you're as excited about it as we are.

Now, let's get started:

AFKs (Target Patch: 2.04)

Over the past several months, we’ve focused much of our efforts on a problem we know is painful to you: AFKs. Even one AFK’d player can turn the tide of a game, and it’s discouraging to know that you’ll have to carry twice as hard for a chance to win. We’ve spent some time working on several features we’re confident will reduce AFKs (both in-game and pre-game) in VALORANT.

We’re implementing improved detection of AFK-type behavior.

Our old system had a few loopholes, and it sucked to see some players slipping through the cracks. Those loopholes will be patched, and in the future, we’ll broaden this detection to encompass other types of disruptive behavior and non-participatory play.

(We can’t go into too much detail on the specifics of this, but know that we have vastly improved our system, and we will continue to iterate on it as new types of exploits turn up in the game.)

We’ve completely revamped our penalty structure for AFK offenses.

Rather than apply generic penalties on an “as needed” basis, we’ll track the behavior of your account over time. This means that your occasional “what the heck happened to my internet” moment likely won’t be punished too harsh (if at all).

On the other hand, if you’re a player who consistently drops out of games...the hammer will come down on you, friend. These penalties are varied, and they scale based on several different factors.

Penalties can include the following:

Warnings
XP denial for the games in which you were AFK’d (see ya later, AFK farmers!)
Small deductions from your ranked rating for pre-game dodges
Deductions from your ranked rating for in-game AFKing (Patch 2.03)
Increased queue restrictions
Barred entry from ranked games
VALORANT game bans (but only if you’re really, really persistent)
Simply put, we’ve leveled up our detection and management of AFKs. And we’re eager to bring these to your game.

CHAT-BASED OFFENSES (Target Patch: 2.04)

We’ve been heads down for a while, and there’s a good reason for that. In addition to AFK’s, we’ve been hard at work improving your experience of communicating with other players in-game.

Say goodbye to “comms bans for all.” To date, we’ve released text moderation for over 11 languages, and we’ve revamped our penalty system for text-based offenses. We’ve introduced more nuance to the system, and penalties escalate with both the frequency and severity of the offense.

Penalties can include the following:

Warnings
Comms bans
Extended comms bans
Ranked queue bans
Game bans
Extended game bans
(Don't forget: tentatively aimed for Patch 2.04, players who are comms banned will be barred from Competitive queue.)

Let us be crystal clear: there is no room for violence, threats, or targeted harassment in VALORANT—those behaviors will not be tolerated. Certain offenses (like those listed above) are categorized as “zero tolerance,” and they warrant a game ban, full stop.

That said, we want to give you a fair warning: our current text evaluation systems can’t discern who started the rage war. If we see you saying awful things, you’ll get flagged, no matter who threw it down first. If someone is verbally harassing you, do not harass them back or repeat what they have said. Report them, and trust that our systems will take care of it. (You also have the option of muting their text chat, voice chat, and pings). We don’t want you getting punished for someone else’s wrongdoing.

REPORTER FEEDBACK (Target Patch: 2.05)

Along with all the above, we’re rolling out feedback to your reports. With this feature, players will be notified when their reports have been actioned on.

We understand it's frustrating to send a report and not know if we ever even saw it, let alone took action on it. Believe us that we’re listening, and your reports do matter—in fact, they’re absolutely essential in making sure we know what you’ve experienced. Version 1 of this will require you to be logged into the game client to receive the feedback, but we’re on our way to a system where we can notify you outside the game.

Ultimately, we just want you to know that we take these issues as seriously as you feel about them, and we are not afraid to punt the bad actors out of our game. We have a long journey ahead of us, but we are thrilled to work with you on making VALORANT a great social experience for all.

ON THE HORIZON

These types of detections (and associated penalties) will come to voice comms as well. In the meantime, please continue to report offending players until we finalize our tech.

Once we extinguish the fires of problematic play, we want to spend more time exploring the brighter side of our VALORANT players: “pro-social” gameplay.

We’re investigating ways to detect positive behavior, and to give players visibility and recognition for their pro-social play. As a little added bonus, we’re introducing a new feature which allows you to invite players to games with only their Riot ID (rather than having to add them as a friend first). This will give you the chance to test out new teammates, without the commitment of adding them to your friends list.

We hope you’ll discover new friends to play through this feature.

WRAP THIS UP

Thank you! Thank you for your feedback, for your patience, and for your unending enthusiasm and dedication to the game we all love. While we’re proud of what we’ve been able to accomplish so far, there’s clearly plenty more work to be done. These are just a few steps on a much longer journey. We’re dedicated to making VALORANT the social experience you deserve, and we’re looking forward to working on that goal together.

With that, we’ll include some helpful links if you want more information on any of the topics we’ve just discussed. We’ll chat with you all soon :)
Hi I’m Brian Chang, an analyst on VALORANT’s Insights team, here with Insights Researcher Coleman “Altombre” Palm. We’re here to talk to you about our approach to using data to help keep our game balanced and enjoyable for you.

In this article, we’ll first cover our general philosophy behind how we use data to help inform changes to our game. We’ll then walk you through an example that shows how past data was used to inform changes to an Agent.

DATA IN GAME BALANCE PHILOSOPHY
On the balance team, our primary goal is to make sure that the game is a fair experience for every player. You can read David “MILKCOW” Cole’s insightful post on game balance in VALORANT here.

One of the major roles that data plays during the game balance process is to help inform designers about the state of the game. Data can tell us when your experience appears to be in a non-ideal state.

Data in this case is used as a diagnostic tool to tell us which parts of our game might need tuning. This data could come in the form of in-game telemetry (e.g. a particular Agent’s winrate is too high/low), or it could come in the form of player research (e.g. a majority of players view an Agent to be frustrating to play against).

However, we go out of our way to not be completely data-driven when making balance decisions in the game, especially early on. VALORANT is still relatively fresh in your hands, and we ourselves don’t yet fully know what “balanced” looks like in our game.

For example, we don’t know how far away from 50/50 attacker/defender-favored a map has to be before player experience becomes unfun. Furthermore, there’s complexity in the fact that Agent strength and popularity affects map balance. A Sentinel-heavy meta would likely lead to more defender-sided maps, whereas a Duelist-heavy meta would likely make maps seem more attacker-favored (things get even messier if you think about how Agents affect maps on a map-by-map basis). Data won’t be the “be-all and end-all” of game balance, but rather one of the many tools we can use to understand the state of the game.

That being said, we’re constantly monitoring both our in-game data as well as your direct input via surveys, so that we can refine our understanding of how data correlates to in-game states of balance. Our aspiration is that in the future, this refined understanding will help us more rapidly understand what aspects of the game seem off, and how we can adjust.

WHAT WE’RE TRACKING
Today, we have a number of data points we look at for each part of our game in order to assess the strength/health of various parts of our game. Split by system, here are some of the metrics we track:

Agents: Winrate (by rank, map), presence (how often an agent is picked), mastery curves (how many games of an agent it takes for a player to hit the “true” winrate of that agent), breadth vs. depth (broad popularity of an agent vs. how deeply each player engages with an agent)
Maps: Round winrate by side (by rank), average round outcome by map (if/where spike was planted)
Weapons: Weapon popularity by round, weapon matchups (e.g. how well a Vandal user does against a Phantom user in a duel)
This isn’t to say that we use only the above metrics to assess the health of our game, but hopefully the examples give you a picture of some of the things we track.

Agent Balance: A Sage case study

For the rest of this post, we’ll focus on Sage, an Agent who has been on the nerfing block quite a few times since our June launch. What led to us making continued changes to Sage, and how did those changes affect her strength?

WHICH AGENT IS TOO STRONG?
The first thing we need to establish is what metrics we use to assess Agent strength. In League of Legends, the primary metrics that are used are presence (how often a champion is picked) and winrate (% of games won per champion). This gets split into a number of different skill brackets, ranging from the average player all the way to the pro level.

Immediately, we observed a major issue when trying to apply League’s metrics for balance in VALORANT. Our game has mirror matches, so an Agent that is very strong (or generally picked in almost all games) could appear to have a 50% winrate (since every time that Agent wins, they also lose).

To resolve this issue, we decided to look at an Agent’s non-mirror winrate (that is, an Agent’s winrate when going against a team without that Agent on the enemy team). This helps us remove the “guaranteed win AND loss” games where the same Agent is on either team. There are some potential risks to this (some amount of selection bias is introduced, which we won’t get into now), but we determined that this non-mirror winrate was our best proxy to understand an Agent’s power from an in-game data perspective.

Here’s what non-mirror winrates looked like in the first patch with Competitive queue live (in patch 1.02). Keep in mind that Sage was nerfed twice before this patch, in Closed Beta patch 0.50 as well as launch patch 1.00. 

valorant_graph_1.jpg
During that same time, here’s what presence looked like for Agents in competitive queues. Some amount of this is related to the fact Sage was one of five free agents when a player joins VALORANT, but her presence was still consistently very high. 

valorant_graph_2.jpg
WHY IS AN AGENT STRONG?
It was clear from the data that Sage was in a tier of her own. The winrate numbers Sage was putting up merited further discussion about what we could do to tone her down.

So far, the data had told us which Agent was too strong. But we wanted to better understand why she was so strong. There are a number of data points we could look at to understand why:

Direct feedback from you about why you believe Sage is strong, both in surveys and in direct conversations
Breakouts of Agent strength by side (to understand how much of Sage’s strengths are pronounced on attack/defense)
Breakout of Agent strength/presence by rank (to understand if there are discrepancies across skill brackets)
Ability-specific data (average amount of healing Sage does in a round, round winrate when Sage uses her ultimate, compared to when other agents use their ultimate, etc.)
All of these data points are intended to give more context on what components of Sage are strong and potentially overtuned. The tricky part is to make sure that we nerf an Agent without compromising their identity as a part of VALORANT. If we nerf the strongest part of every Agent, we risk losing what makes them special. Equipped with this data, our designers explored options to make Sage not a “must-pick”, while keeping her identity as a premium stall/support utility character. 

It’s important to keep in mind that data is but one of the tools that can be used to assess Agent strength. A huge part of understanding and refining an Agent’s kit is more related to the vast amount of knowledge and experience that the designers bring to the table. Our design philosophy is ultimately what drives our game forward, and no amount of data is useful unless we keep our core design principles at the forefront of game balance.

Ultimately, the direction that the balance team ended up going is to hit both her healing and stalling, but in different ways. Healing potential was cut across the board (longer cooldown, less healing per cast), while stalling was changed to allow for more counterplay (Barrier Orb took some time to fortify, Slow Orb size reduction).

WHAT THINGS LOOK LIKE TODAY
So after we made those changes, what do things look like? Here’s what Sage’s numbers looked like in patch 1.11 competitive queues: 

valorant_graph_3.jpg
valorant_graph_4.jpg
Sage is still quite strong; in fact, she has never fallen outside of the top three strongest at any point, in any skill bracket, since launch. Her presence is in a more reasonable state as well (hovering around 50%). However, public perception is that Sage was nerfed too hard; 38% surveyed believe that Sage is currently too weak in patch 1.11.

valorant_graph_5.jpg
MOVING AHEAD
Currently, we feel like Sage is in a relatively healthy state, according to our data. There are, however, a number of factors that we’ll need to refine our understanding on moving forward:

Release of Agents, maps, and how those affect Agent strength: With the release of Icebox and (more importantly) Skye, we may see a shift in the meta such that Sage becomes too weak. Hypothetically, the introduction of another Agent that can heal allies might provide choice competition that renders Sage more obsolete (for the record, we don’t think this will happen, but it’s possible).
Pro-play data: One thing that we’re still refining in our understanding of the pro-play meta, and how data from the highest level of VALORANT should affect our balance philosophy. If we compare the data from the professional matches happening around the world to Radiant-level matches, there’s still a huge discrepancy in both Agent presence and non-mirror winrates.
Public perception: Despite our in-game telemetry telling us that Sage is in a good spot balance-wise, survey results tell us that players feel like Sage feels too weak. We’ll have to track how perception changes (if at all) over time, and assess what steps need to be taken should perception remain dubious about Sage’s strength.
If you made it this far, thanks for sticking with us through this small example of how data is used over on the VALORANT balance team. We hope this gave you some visibility into how and why decisions are made (and hopefully can convince you that Sage isn’t completely useless…).
The Battlepass is a path of various rewards for the time you spend tapping heads and planting Spikes in VALORANT. It’s a feature all players engage with, so we (the Premium Content team) want to make sure the pass is broadly appealing. That doesn’t mean every player will love everything; however, every player should love at least something.

We draw inspiration from lots of sources—the Maps, meta gameplay memes, fun references to items from the previous Battlepass, etc.—and go into each creative brainstorm with an open mind.

Although this dev diary will focus on creative considerations behind the Battlepass, improvements for our cosmetics are always top of mind. The recent pick-any-variant change, experimenting with melee variants, and taking an honest look at the work needed for skin level toggling are recent examples. You can also look ahead to Act III Battlepass for upcoming changes driven by your feedback. Keep that coming


THERE’S LEVELS TO THIS
chicken.png	PlayerCards_SchematicVandal_L1.png	tactibear.png

From the start, the Battlepass was built with a free track so free-to-players can also earn rewards and commemorate their participation with a feeling of “I was there!”

There are also some rewards that we couldn’t imagine not letting everyone earn, such as the Tactibear Buddy, or the ultimate Chicken spray/title/card combo, to name a few. Look, you all need some way to show your Vandal love or celebrate your opponents’ salty tears.

For players who purchase the Premium track—our aim is to create a diverse array of options for cosmetics. Something scifi, fantasy, sci-fantasy (yes…), artsy, edgy, etc. This is especially important because we know there are a lot of you who never purchase skins in the Store directly but still want to earn lots of in-game items.

(That’s why in Act III, we’re also offering variant upgrades for the Surge skin, since many Battlepass-only players had tons of Radianite Points in the bank but no way to spend them.)

opcrimson.png	PlayerCards_GTease_L1.png	coffee.png

The tier order changes every Act so that the most popular cosmetics aren't always artificially locked until the last few tiers. That way, if you’re the type of player who only buys the Battlepass, you can find a skin for your favorite weapon regardless if you completed all 50 tiers or not.

For example, in Act I the Vandal skin was in Chapter 9, but in Act II, it showed up much earlier. We want players to feel like they’ve earned something special as they level up through the Battlepass, but we also gotta be fair.

WHAT’S THE IDEA?
A smiling toaster. A record player, but with a VALORANT spin. A griefing Scuttle Crab. Froggie Hat. Where does this all come from?

toaster.png	vinyl.png	froggy.png
FUN ON COMPANY TIME
How do we come up with ideas for what to put in the Battlepass? Whatever insane creative process you’ve pictured in your head is probably close to the truth. A small team of us brainstorm (virtually, these days) big, no-constraints, blue-sky ideas for hours.

Believe us, there’s no such thing as a bad idea so early in the creative process. Similar to our weapon skins approach, we encourage wild ideas and a safe place to pitch them. Our team can always narrow the final ideas later, but at this stage we optimize for quantity rather than quality of ideas. If it’s just too big for our team to tackle at the moment, we save it for later.

THEME SONGS
Because the Battlepass content is exclusive to the Act it’s released in, we want to make sure the content feels like it feels like a cohesive package. Step one is to look at what else is happening in that Act:

Who’s the new Agent getting released?
Are there any new maps?
Are there any global events or holidays happening?
What do we want to tease about the lore of VALORANT?
What’s the current meta?
What are players saying about VALORANT lately?
Melee_hive.png	Vandal_hive.png	ares_hive.png

NO DREAMS, ONLY TIERS NOW
It’s no surprise that we strive for thematic diversity within the Battlepass skins. This can start with a nebulous intent, such as a desire for a pure fantasy design. Take the Act III Battlepass: the Ruin collection leans into the fantasy genre, whereas Surge is more clean and graphic, and Serenity is aimed at the luxurious.

guardian_ruin.png	bucky_charge.png	phantom_serenity.png

It also helps when you tell us what you loved from previous Battlepasses. The popularity of Tactibear led to the creation of their peer, Tactisquirrel. Many of you equipped the Octopus Player Card, so we started to lean heavily into Octopus-related content.

The content should also be relevant and topical to the VALORANT community. For example, the seemingly ongoing debate of “which is better, the Vandal or the Phantom” may never be solved, so we wanted to commemorate that argument with a card. 

(A card memeing on the unfortunate abundance of Guardian skins is overdue.) 

For holidays, we try to capture the spirit rather than something more abstract. A cute jack-o-lantern Gun Buddy is alright, but too much spooky content probably isn’t something our global audience would appreciate.

And then there’s something we can all relate to, a “moment in time.” Many of us are feeling the effects of quarantine, so the Viper “Stay Safe” spray is a nod to something we are all surviving together.

wash.png
Maps are probably our best source of Battlepass inspiration. Even we have a blast running and searching got map easter eggs created by the Maps team! The Chilly McFreeze snowman, Gelato Cutie, Immortal Rose, and all the Tacti-animal gun buddies originated from the Maps themselves. Even the infamous Octopus is based on a mural from Ascent. 

The folks on the Premium Content team also love playing VALORANT together. That’s why we try to reference some of our funny anecdotal in-game experiences (like the “No Time” spray) or stuff we see in highlight clips online. 

The randomized “Pick my Strat” spray is for when we’re tired of straight rushing long B only to die to something-that-should-have-been-obvious-like-Raze-ult and wish fate would tell us how to play our next round. And the “Piece of Cake” spray is our polite alternative to call something “easy,” instead of spamming GGEZ in the chat. 

Internal design contests help us gather pitches when we are short on inspiration. You can thank members of the VALORANT team for items like the “Scuttle Trash” Gun Buddy, suggested by a person who wanted to celebrate how “trash” she and her partner are at VALORANT. “Potato Aim” is another example—you can guess what that represents.

tader.png	trash.png
SPRAY-TO-SPEECH
Sometimes a post-clutch spray says more than any celebratory chant could. Our sprays, titles, and Gun Buddies are also an opportunity to let players non-verbally express themselves in a creative and practical way that is often better than a mic or text chat. 

For every spray we create, we ask ourselves “what is a player saying when they use this?” and how do we make this feel like a VALORANT spray? Or we start with the expression first and ask “how do we express this with a spray?” Some examples of our favorite spray communications/pairings:

Tell the world “I suck at this game!” - Pair the “Sad Crab” spray with the Potato Aim or Scuttle Trash Buddy, your pick
Toss out a casual “That was easy!” - “Piece of Cake” spray (also, maybe a future idea: a GG button, or a GGEZ button spray)
One-tap the enemy with a Sheriff? - Drop that “Cheaters Never Prosper” spray because who needs hacks?
Say it with pride: “I’m a filthy camper.” - Pair the Bucky card with the “Pumped” title and spam the “Camper” or “Cheesy Shot” spray after you blast an unsuspecting enemy with the Polyfox Judge
Hi, I’m Kevin Lee, a software engineer on VALORANT’s Game Systems team. Our team is responsible for developing many of the core systems that support VALORANT’s gameplay, including movement, combat and input. In this post, I’ll be going through one of the systems that’s core to FPS gameplay: Hit Registration.

In a game like VALORANT, hit registration is arguably one of the most important systems given that the difference between a win or loss can come down to a single headshot. Our goal as developers is to ensure that when a player fires a shot, the outcome of the shot is clear, feels right, and is above all else, correct.

We’ll sometimes see posts or receive messages from players with clips where hit reg appears broken. We take all of these reports seriously, and go through each video frame-by-frame to validate that the system is working as expected.

That being said, we think hit registration in VALORANT is in a pretty good spot right now. Yes, there may still be edge case bugs out there and we will always take those seriously. We’re constantly looking to improve the quality and clarity of all of our systems.

CORRECTNESS VS CLARITY
In beta patch 0.50, we saw a spike of reports around issues with hit registration. After looking through player reports, videos and extended internal testing, we were able to identify a few edge case bugs with hit registration, but none of them severe enough to explain the amount of reports we received. Upon closer review, the majority of the clips had issues not with correctness, but with clarity. The shots were being properly processed, but the visual feedback of the shot was presenting a misleading outcome to the player. This highlights an important distinction between correctness and clarity.

While both are important in ensuring the “feel” of a shot...

Correctness refers to the outcome of a shot being wrong (i.e., bullets hit the head but registers as body or enemy players appearing differently on the client compared to the server)
Clarity refers to the presentation of a shot being hard to read (i.e. bullet hit the shoulder, but visual feedback made it look like the bullet hit the head)
Correctness bugs are much worse than clarity bugs
We hope this article will shed some light on the system so everyone can look back at their gameplay and understand what’s happening on their screen, with respect to their shots. I’ll go over how the system works at a high level, and explain what happens from the moment the fire button is pressed, to the headshot being displayed.

For a more detailed technical deep dive, check out this article about VALORANT’s netcode on the Riot Tech Blog.

I’ll also go into some common cases we see when it comes to reports of “broken hit reg” and try to explain what’s going on and what we’re doing to improve clarity in those scenarios.

FROM CLICK TO HEADSHOT
Before we dive into what happens when a shot is fired, it’s important to understand how the game simulates what’s happening. VALORANT’s gameplay is simulated twice: once on the server (the authority for how the simulation plays out) and once on your client (predicting server results to make the game feel more responsive).

The game simulation includes everything that makes up the world including all player’s positions, any abilities flying through the air, and any smokes on the battlefield. Each frame, the game takes a snapshot of the simulation and uses that to render a frame on your screen. The server also does this for each of its frames (skipping the render step since there’s no one watching the server).

Ok so, an enemy peeks out from a corner, and with your amazing crosshair placement you’re already locked onto their head, so you hit the left mouse button to fire— What happens?

hit_reg_flow.jpg
The moment you press a key, the input is sent to our input system (subject to a small amount of hardware/operating system latency). Each game frame, the input system will process all the inputs it has received since the previous frame. When you fire a shot, that “fire” input is sent to the server alongside a timestamp for what frame in the simulation the shot happened.

It’s important to note that this timestamp is according to what is currently rendered on your screen at the time of the input being received by VALORANT. We now have to follow the shot on two different simulations: the client’s and the server’s.

Let’s start with the client, or your local machine. Immediately after the shot has been sent off to the server, the client starts working on displaying a muzzle flash and tracer for the shot. At the earliest, this will happen one frame after your input has been fired since the game needs to render a new frame to your screen. This is important because it means the frame a shot is processed is NOT the same frame that a tracer is displayed, it's actually at least one frame before.

This can sometimes lead to a failure in shot clarity. The common way this desync could be solved is to delay the bullet. We don’t do this because delaying the bullet adds input latency which we want to minimize in VALORANT. With respect to hit confirms, the client waits until it hears back from the server on the result before displaying a hit-confirm. In order to guarantee consistency across all users and to prevent cheaters from hacking their clients to give false shot results, shot results are entirely server authoritative.

Meanwhile, the server eventually receives a message from the client that a shot has been fired. Due to internet latency, time has passed since this shot has been fired. To ensure the shot is fired against the same simulation that was shown to the player, the server rewinds the simulation to the timestamp given by the client before evaluating hit registration. This includes rewinding player positions and animation poses. It then sends the result of the shot back to the client. For the sake of this example, let’s say it was a headshot!

The client will receive a message from the server with the result of the shot and then plays the VFX and audio that’s appropriate. In this case, it would be headshot VFX and audio. Because the client has to wait for the server to tell it the result of the shot there is a delay between the tracer and the hit effects equal to your connection’s round trip time (i.e. 40 ms to the server = 80 ms delay between tracer and hit VFX), plus a minor amount of processing time. With higher latencies, this delay can become noticeable in real-time.

This is something we’re actively working on improving from a clarity perspective.

CASE STUDY 1: HITTING MOVING TARGETS
Case_Study_1.gif

In a lot of reports regarding hit registration, we see that the target of the shot is running. Let’s take a closer look at what visually happens when a shot successfully hits a running target. We see the player gets a successful headshot on the running player. To more easily illustrate this issue in this example, the client is running at 60 FPS. You can see that in the frame before the tracer is fired, their crosshair aligns with the enemy’s head.

case-study-1_frame-1.jpg	case-study-1_frame-2.jpg
However, the frame where the tracer comes out, that is no longer the case.

case_study_1_part_2.gif
The second clip shows the same scenario, but with the shot barely missing the target. When you look at the video frame by frame, you can see that the opposite is true: their crosshair is off the head on the frame before the tracer, but on the head the frame the tracer comes out. On first glance, you might think to point to the frame with the tracer and say “See, this was clearly a headshot!” When reviewing video or replays, we actually need to be looking at the frame before the tracer to get an accurate picture of when the shot was fired.

case-study-1_part2_frame-1.jpg	case-study-1_part2_frame-2.jpg
case-study-1_part2_no-hit-vfx.jpg	
Let’s go back to the example where the shot hit and look at the frame when the hit VFX is rendered. There is a noticeable gap between the player’s current location and the location of the hit VFX due to the delay caused by internet latency. This can be confusing when you’re trying to understand what happened with your shot, since you’ll most likely be focused on the enemy's current location, not their location at the time of the shot. This can also lead to additional confusion in crouching/strafing scenarios (which we will look at in Case Study 2).

case-study-1_part2_frame-where-hit-vfx-rendered.jpg
This case study illustrates a lack of clarity with the current hit registration system. Ideally, you don’t need to understand all this background information to be able to read the situation clearly. As developers, we acknowledge this and are investigating ways to improve clarity in these cases.

CASE STUDY 2: CROUCHING INTO SHOT VFX
So you’ve entered a gun fight at long range. To your future self’s regret, you hold down left click and spray your gun. At least one of those bullets will be a headshot, right? But no, you hit 3 body shots with your Vandal, dealing 117 damage, before receiving a headshot in return.

Furious, you go to review the footage after the game, certain that bad hit reg was at play. You see the enemy player was spamming crouch in an attempt to dodge your shots. To your surprise, you see a hit VFX right on top of their head while the player is crouching. But your combat report only showed body shots! What gives??

Here’s a link to a real post on reddit titled “Headshots not registering when a player crouches” of the hypothetical.

When our team goes to investigate reports of bad hit reg, situations like this one are the most frequent cause for what appears to be incorrect hit registration. In fact, hit registration is working correctly—shots are going where you're aiming (ignoring spread or movement error) when you press the fire button, and that shot is accurately registering on the server

However, a few different factors cause this particular case to be visually misleading:

Hit VFX are delayed due to internet latency
Hit VFX are displayed at the location of the original shot impact
The target player is moving (most often crouching)
Case_Study_2.gif
For another example, let’s say the player has 50 ping. The player hits a shoulder shot on the enemy player. Because we need to wait for the server to confirm the hit, it’s 100 ms later when the hit VFX starts to play on the location of the body shot. But during that 100 ms, the enemy player has started to crouch, moving their head right behind the newly spawned hit VFX. At long range and in the heat of a gunfight, a body hit VFX can be confused for a headshot hit VFX.

case-study-2_cursor-on-body.jpg case-study-2_hit-VFX-on-body-correctly.jpg case-study-2_player-crouches-into-vfx.jpg
This was especially bad during beta patch 0.50 when blood was unintentionally disabled for everyone, and our spark VFX has less visual clarity in distinguishing headshots and body shot VFX. We’ve always had separate VFX to indicate body shots vs headshots, but we realize they didn’t always read clearly in combat.

This is a failure in hit registration clarity that we are actively trying to improve. One of the things we’re experimenting with is tying hit VFX to the body part of the character where the hit occurred, so that there is a clear relationship—even with high latency.

Comparison of our current non-blood headshot hit VFX compared to body shot VFX:

headshot-VFX.jpg	body-shot-VFX.jpg
PLANNED CLARITY IMPROVEMENTS
The two case studies highlight some areas where our current hit confirm VFX falls short. One of the changes we’re iterating on is to have blood and spark effects spawn on the character’s current position, according to which part of their body got hit, and follow them as they move. This greatly increases the clarity in situations like in case study 2 with crouching enemies, because the visual effect will move with their body movements.

One trade-off to this approach is that it would be possible for hit confirm VFX to move behind cover alongside its attached character. Consider the case of a player with 100 ms of ping shooting at a player jiggle peeking a corner. If they land a shot on the enemy and they immediately move back behind a corner before the hit confirm arrives from the server, the shooter may not be able to see the hit confirm when it spawns.

We’ve considered adding multiple particles, some that follow the character and others that spawn immediately at the hit location, based on the client simulation, to mitigate this issue. However, this in turn can cause confusion if the client and server simulations ever disagree on the outcome of a shot: The effects need to be clear in what they represent so it’s easy to understand the outcome of a shot.

We’re continuing to iterate on this and other improvements to clarity and hope to have a set of clarity updates to share soon, in a future patch.

KEEP SENDING VIDEOS
Hopefully this post has helped you better understand how hit registration works in VALORANT and better understand why shots resolve the way they do. Please keep sending us videos any time you think hit reg is misbehaving, we do try our best to look at all of them.

Even if there’s no issue at hand, it helps us track down hit registration correctness bugs faster when they do happen (my heart rate also jumps each time I see the word “Hit Reg” on a top voted reddit post).
Hello, I’m Brandon Wang, a software engineer on VALORANT’s Content Support team, pairing up with Weapon Artist Chris Stone today for a look at the development of our recent Spline weapon skin, and generally, how engineers and artists collaborate to deliver memorable content for you all.

Spline was another challenge to do something different. Skins like Elderflame and Prime were really out there but we’ve yet to attempt a line for those who prefer a subtle weapon skin but still wanted unique geometry and some subtle VFX. With concept art in hand, the Content Support team tested the design with players—and lucky for us, they dug it. Maybe it was the strange and abstract shapes not typical for FPS designs. Take a look:

Spline_Concept_1920x1080_V1.jpg
Getting those orbs to come alive was a special challenge unto itself because the depth we were pursuing couldn’t be done through VFX alone. The fantasy that tested so well would fall flat if the orbs were only emissive. 

And thus, the beautiful partnership between Content Support and Premium Content teams came in for the save. With help on the engineering end, our artists experimented with our awesome in-game shader to not only create the Spline orb shader but other shaders that you all see in VALORANT today.

ART, MEET ENGINEERING
Early in VALORANT’s life, I (Brandon) was working on a lot of foundational and fundamental work to optimize shaders (the programs behind what most people consider a game’s graphics) and help drive the art style. 

Once we solidified our art style and the game was performing close to where we liked on the GPU side, I jumped to help out other teams with very specific needs in my specialty: engineering in rendering and materials.

unnamed.gif
One of the materials I helped develop was the Sage Orb. We wanted to have a gem-like power-source for Sage, so I built a prototype using parallax to make it look like there’s a flowing, floating, cloudy core inside.

orb_concept.gif	orb_final.gif
(Left: My original prototype, right: production version)

VFX artists took the prototype and the workings behind it, tuned the look and topped it with their own take to hit the final version you see in-game. 

For weapon skins in particular, I added a touch of interesting tech. Prism, Avalanche, and Nebula were all originally experiments and prototypes on the base weapon models to see if unique effects, in a similar vein to Sage’s orbs, would make exciting skins.

But it’s not enough to make an interesting effect—we need to build one that’s “tunable” in an artist-friendly way. For Prism, we used gradients to tune the effect and colors.


Avalanche began as a hodgepodge of different effects combined to try and make a pink Himalayan salt lamp (as inspired by the lamp on the desk of VALORANT’s PR manager). That didn’t look quite right. Then our artists saw the blue version and drove the skin to the direction you see today.

unnamed_(1).png
unnamed_(2).png
[Original Avalanche prototypes]



Avalanche_Asset.jpg
Nebula started off as a simple “portal to another world,” but we needed a decent amount of engineering effort to reduce the texture to fit into our performance budgets, even for players running on low spec machines (these limits make it so the game will run as fast as possible, even when using fancy skins).

We ended up using a single face of a cubemap, tiled horizontally to be seamless, and added a “detail” texture on top. Unfortunately, this version caused some players motion sickness, and we didn’t want to ruin any keyboards. So, our artists drove the fantasy further and reduced the effect to prevent nausea. And then we ran some extra playtests with VALORANT devs who said they’re prone to motion sickness IRL and in games.

early_nebula.jpg

These engineering prototypes are nowhere close to production-ready skins. All of these prototypes end up as tools for artists to select from in their own work. Whereas Prism, Avalanche, and Nebula directly became the main portions of their respective skin lines, Spline marries the tech behind Sage’s orbs to support the rest of the skin. Speaking of Sage’s Orbs, I reme— Wait, don’t take my keyboard away, I built that, it’s my ke—

—ENGINEERING, MEET ART
HEY, it’s Chris jumping in now. Oh, this is a sweet keyboard. That actuation force...

So the original Sage shader as mentioned above was fantastic, no doubt. But it missed the fantasy of the Spline Orb that we had in our original concept. I hit up Bwang (that’s Brandon) and asked him to break down the Sage shader a tad. After he explained how the shader network was set up in our game engine, I was able to make some slight adjustments on my end to better support our artistic goals for Weapon Skins. 

After I made the adjustments, I hopped into Substance Designer, a node-based texturing software, to work on some new textures that would better fit with the style of the conceptual orb while also working within our performance and shader constraints (the ones about making the game run as fast as possible).

Below is a snippet taken from the process of creating new textures. By the end of the process, we were able to create something more abstract from the Sage orb to match the fantasy of the Spline concept.

cstone_spline_sagecompare_02.gif
As a bonus, let's quickly look at another collaboration with the Content Support team: the custom shader used on the Prism skin line. After a few Bwang lessons, we were able to go in and add some custom controls that could modulate the orb’s Iridescence effect.

Take a look:

Prism_Asset.jpg
MORE COLLABS ON THE WAY
These are just a few examples of Premium Content and Content Support working closely together to develop new shaders for VALORANT that lead to distinct skins for everyone.

Spline_Collection.jpg
We do carry other day-to-day responsibilities that make it so not every skin line can go through this process, but it’s always exciting when we’re able to prototype new shaders for you all. Hopefully this shows the power that comes from cross-team collaboration, when both teams are invested in making something cool. 

It’s easy for us to have a common goal when we try to think of what would excite you. We always have artists and engineers working closely together, and we’re learning new workflows as we go!
As we near the end of VALORANT Act I, we want to lay out our plans for the Competitive experience at the end of an Act, and discuss new features starting in Act II.

Currently in our Competitive system, your rank is very closely tied to your skill (MMR) and it can move up or down fluidly depending on if you are having a good or bad day of competitive play. We want you to have an accurate representation of your current skill in matches. We also want to build a ranked system that promotes growth and engagement over ‘peaking’ at a top rank, getting anxious about losing it, and stuffing it in the fridge.

Let’s talk about our next steps!

COMPETITIVE ACT II UPDATE & ACT RANKS
The takeaway: After an Act, all that matters for your Act Rank are your 9 best ranked wins of the act, and how many wins you’ve gotten in the act. So if you peak at Diamond but drop down to Gold, your act rank will only remember the good times. Take another run at Immortal, push those lower rank games out!

Let’s break down the details:

Your rank will still be a close reflection of your current rating
We are now introducing “Act Ranks,” which track your ‘proven skill’ (this is new!), highest ranked win, and # of competitive wins in the Act
At the end of the act, your Act Rank will be preserved as a badge on your player card in Competitive Games (and in your career history)
Your ‘proven skill’ is your 9th best ranked win of the Act, to demonstrate you can consistently win at that level
Your highest ranked win is self-explanatory: It’s the highest ranked win you’ve achieved in the act (right at the top of that triangle)
Your Act Rank border is the surrounding border that evolves based on your number of competitive wins in the Act
You’ll also be able to review past Act Rank info in your Career Tab
ACT RANK
act_2_ranked_article_1_v2.jpg
As you play, your Act Rank fills with smaller triangles. Each triangle represents your ranked match wins (Gold, Immortal, etc.) over the course of an Act based on the rank you entered the game with (hence your rank for that match).

Wins at higher ranks visually replace your lowest wins to display the best of your Competitive games. For example, more wins at Radiant will push out your earliest wins at Bronze (very aspirational!).

The border also changes as you hit these win thresholds: 9, 25, 50, 75, and 100.

Starting in Act II, your friends will be able to inspect your Match History, including both your rank and overall Act Rank progress.

ACT RANK BADGE
act_2_ranked_article_2_v2.jpg
You can view your progress toward your Act Rank Badge anytime in the career page.

Your Act Rank Badge shows off your proven skill (best ranked match wins) for that Act. This is based on your top nine ranked wins. Remember, you will have to prove your skill at that rank if you want to finalize it as your Act Rank.

For Act I, we’ve decided to not award an Act Rank Badge because we figure you want to know what you’re getting into before commemorating it with a badge. Again, for Act II, you’ll be able to earn that Act Rank Badge, which memorializes your Act II competitive skill and will display on your player card during Act III Competitive games.

While we always plan to allow you to view your prior Act Rank progress in your Career Tab, your Act Rank Badge will represent your latest Act Rank and proven skill, so other players have a good indication of how you’ve been playing in the past two months.

COMPETITIVE & END OF ACTS
act_2_ranked_article_3.jpg
With each VALORANT Act, we plan to deliver a host of fresh content as well as balance changes. As the game evolves, we want to give both new and returning players an opportunity to jump back in and see how their skills stack up in the new Act.

Here’s what happens at the end of an Act for Competitive:

Your prior Act Rank will be saved and locked in your Career tab
Act 1 Competitive data will be saved
You will be put back into abridged placements.
It will take 3 games to display your rank instead of the initial 5
These placements are quicker as we will reference your MMR from the prior Act, so we can quickly assess your skill for the current Act.
Your rank will be a conservative placement where we are confident you are able to compete at that skill level—or higher.
Typically, your Rank will land a couple of tiers below where you ended the prior Act, but we’ll be increasing how heavily we weigh performance in your early games so you can quickly improve your rank if you play well and win
Placement games don’t count toward earning your Act Rank.
WHAT’S AHEAD
We look forward to hearing your thoughts and feedback on Competitive and Act Ranks.

As we get closer to the end of Act II, we’ll share another update on our next steps for evolving the Competitive experience. Right now a couple of the top priority areas we are looking at is improving transparency and clarity into your rank changes, along with solving some pain points for high rank players. We also always welcome hearing from you all other features and improvements you want to see.
Hey VALORANT competitors, ahead of our global launch of Competitive Matchmaking during patch 1.02, we wanted to give you an update on what to expect when you queue up.

A huge thank you to all of you for the feedback during VALORANT Closed Beta, your input helped inform our next steps. So, based on that feedback, we targeted a few areas to level up for Competitive launch.

On that note, it’s worth saying that this ranked system is a living work in progress, so don’t stop your comments. Expect us to continue to make improvements based on your feedback.

Changes for launch:

Updated rank iconography and top rank name
Easier to play with your friends
Soon after patch 1.02:

Rank Progression
RANK ICONOGRAPHY
VALORANT_ICONS_2.jpg
We knew going into Closed Beta we wanted to take another pass at rank iconography and taking your feedback into account we’ve made the following changes:

Clarity pass for rank colors so it's easier to distinguish between each rank
Visual polish pass for each Match Rating
Additionally, although we still really like having our top rank be something unique to our game and aligned with our IP, we’ve decided to remove VALORANT as the name of our top rank to help reduce potential confusion of the game vs the rank. 

The new name for our top rank will represent Agents infused with powers, known as Radiant.

PLACEMENT MATCHES & PREMADES
We really believe in VALORANT teamplay, playing and competing with your friends. So we’ve made it easier to play with teammates in placements, and will continue to work to further optimize for balanced matches, regardless of your premade size. This is an ongoing commitment from us.

You can now matchmake with your friends during placements even if they have a fairly large skill discrepancy—to a certain extent. For example, if you’re an elite player, and your friend is still learning the ropes, our Competitive Matchmaking will still prevent you from being able to queue in order to protect the competitive integrity and experience for the other players in that match.

We also are continuing to optimize our matchmaking to ensure that, regardless of your premade size, you are put into fair and balanced matches. By the end of closed beta, we were narrowing in on matches being about 50/50 fairness for the vast majority of skill groups (outside of our most elite players in our top two ranks).

For Immortal and Radiant players, we’ve made some improvements to our matchmaking, but we know that for this specific tier of play, there is still a slight advantage to being in a 5-stack vs playing solo in these top ranks. We are looking into tactics to help address this problem, and plan to share more later this year.

RANK PROGRESSION
In every VALORANT Act—which spans about two months—you’ll have the opportunity to track your rank progress throughout the Act. We will start tracking your rank progress as soon as we launch Competitive with patch 1.02 behind the scenes, and soon after we will be providing you visible info in your Match History, and eventually in other locations in the client, around your overall performance for the Act. Rank progress we are looking at tracking are stats such as how you’ve climbed in rank over the Act, your number of wins, along with your wins at your highest achieved rank.

THE BEYOND
We’ve seen a ton of demand for competitive-related features that support teams, in-client tournaments, fairer overtime handling, and more granular top rank comparisons - such as leaderboards. For now, we are primarily focused on getting Competitive Matchmaking globally launched. However, we do want to eventually address these needs.

Our vision for the future highlights teamplay as a critical part of the VALORANT Competitive Ecosystem. We want to create the opportunity for all players to come together and compete at high stakes as a team, with the hope these team-oriented competitive matches will be memorable and rewarding events.

Expect to hear more on this topic later in 2020.
Hey it’s Paul “Arkem” Chamberlain, your VALORANT anti-cheat lead here again with a quick spotlight on the importance of player reports.

One of the most powerful tools in the fight against cheaters is player reports. Reporting gives players a way to directly tell us, your faithful anti-cheat team, what suspicious activity is going on in their games. Unlike Vanguard’s automated systems (Riot Vanguard is our anti-cheat system) reports bring human insight to our anti-cheat efforts at an otherwise unobtainable scale and bring with it a direct look at everyone’s experience in game. It’s really important that players use the in-game reporting tools everytime they see something suspicious, it’s the best way to help us keep the game fair!

I promise some spicy numbers at the end.

REPORTS LIFE CYCLE
Reports feed into many of our team’s processes both automated and manual. On the automated side, the Vanguard backend uses reports to decide whether or not a player should receive additional scrutiny, such as a higher intensity game integrity scan. Vanguard also uses the number of reports (more specifically the number of unique reporters and number of games in which the player was reported) as an indication of confidence in its findings—which helps us ban players faster and, in many cases, without manual review.

Our anti-cheat analysts also use reports to drive the manual review process. Each day the analysts (sometimes guest starring myself) review the most suspicious players, usually starting with the most reported players. These manual reviews help us find cheats that aren’t automatically detected that we then use to improve Vanguard so that automatic detection (and bans) will happen in the future. We also use these manual reviews as an opportunity to remove the most disruptive players ahead of schedule. We often use “ban-waves” to keep cheat developers guessing as to whether or not their cheat is currently detected but we’re happy to early-exit the most disruptive cheaters to better protect the game.

Finally, we use reports as a measure of the health of the game as well as the effectiveness of Vanguard. If the overall number of reports is going up then that’s a sign to us as developers that players are feeling bad about the integrity of the game (regardless of the accuracy of each individual report). Likewise one way we can assess the effectiveness of Vanguard is by comparing the percentage of players reported for cheating versus the percentage of players detected by Vanguard.

BY THE NUMBERS
I know everyone likes stats, so I asked our anti-cheat data science friends to find some juicy numbers for you all to see.

First of all, 97% of players have never even received a single report—no one has ever found their behavior suspicious enough to comment on. Of these 3% of players that have been reported for cheating, more than 80% of them have only ever been reported by a single player. 90% have been reported by fewer than 3 players.

To put this another way, only 0.6% of players have received more than 1 cheating report and only 0.3% have received 3 or more. However, reports and cheaters aren’t perfectly correlated, many reported players are innocent and not all cheaters get reported before they’re banned. Right now only 53% of banned cheaters were reported before their ban and only 60% of players with 20 reports get banned after review.

But even without a perfect correlation, reports are extremely helpful.

So why am I telling you this? I want you all to report more, whenever you see something suspicious in your game please use the report system so we can see it too. Your reports are invaluable to us, your view from the ground is the best intelligence we could ask for and when we work together great things are possible!
Hi everyone, Paul “Arkem” Chamberlain, VALORANT’s not-at-all-scary anti-cheat lead, here to talk to you about anti-cheat (surprise). I’ve popped up a few times already to talk about specific anti-cheat systems and give quick updates or high level overviews on cheating topics—but I wanted to take some time today to go over our anti-cheat strategy from top to bottom.

Consider this the What, Why, and How of VALORANT anti-cheat.

Firstly the “Why,” as in, why am I talking about this so much and why are we collectively spending all this effort fighting cheating? Frankly, it’s because I believe that it’s what players (that’s all of you) expect and demand from their tactical shooters. Along with our other commitments to competitive integrity, anti-cheat is a core requirement, the “table stakes” for a serious competitive experience.

Next the “What.” What exactly are we trying to accomplish for anti-cheat in VALORANT? The goal is to build a trustworthy gaming experience by making cheating as rare as possible. This means that we aim to prevent as many cheats as possible and detect anything that we can’t prevent. We know that we can’t stop all cheaters immediately but we believe we can deal with them to the point that most players rarely, if ever, encounter a cheater.

So, “How” can we achieve this? How do we think we can protect the game experience from cheats? It’s fundamentally a defense in depth approach. We first build the game to be as cheat-resistant as we can (e.g., Fog of War, and server authoritative movement netcode). Next, we make the cost of developing cheats as prohibitive as possible (e.g., Vanguard and other anti-tamper measures). Finally we detect, ban, and remove cheaters from the game as efficiently as possible using Vanguard cheat detection, hardware bans, player reports, data analysis, and machine learning research.

Yes, cheats are still possible in VALORANT—there are already some examples out in the wild. But this strategy makes those cheats much more difficult to develop and maintain. This in turn makes them more expensive to buy, which limits how many cheaters there are in the game. The smaller community of capable cheat developers also makes their cheats easier to keep track of and enables us to take other approaches—such as legal avenues—to keeping them out of our ecosystem.

fogofwar_off.jpg	fogofwar_on.jpg
This leads us to the real big questions: How do we know if we’re winning and what does success look like?

There are a lot of ways to measure success. Often we hear reports of “X number of players banned” and game studios using internal metrics like “percentage of players cheating” or “percentage of games impacted by cheating.” While those numbers are useful indicators, they’re of secondary importance to VALORANT.

Our anti-cheat for VALORANT is designed to make sure players can trust the game and have a positive experience while playing. So our primary success criteria is how well you all think we’re doing. We track the number of player reports for cheating, we ask players directly via surveys for their impression, and we keep track of player sentiment on social media (hi twitter!).

In short, if you’re not happy with us... then we aren’t successful. Anti-cheat is here to serve players, so please let us know how we’re doing.

We’ve talked about how we design Agents in the past—and we talk about making League champions a lot. This time we want to share more about how we made Neon because it’s a bit different from how we usually do things. But first, a quick refresher.

We design Agents through a process called DNA. A game designer, narrative writer, and concept artist are assigned to an upcoming Agent, and in the beginning, there’s just a starting seed—like a design, narrative, or diversity goal. This could be making another Radiant, or adding another duelist to the roster, or exploring a different region of the world with a character who calls it home.

From there, the core team (because there are a lot more folks involved than just DNA) brainstorms... a lot. They toss around ideas, create paper prototypes, write flash bios, and draw spreads of concept art.

Slowly we have someone who feels unique, cohesive, and adds something exciting to the current roster. Then bam, you have 500 files named finalfinalFINALIPROMISE, hundreds of animations, meshes breaking in places no one knew possible, sound effects playing randomly, wait why is their face texture on their hands... Oh look, we have an Agent!

They release, armchair designers come out of the woodwork on Reddit, Twitter explodes with an overabundant amount of fan art, and everyone turns on all chat to flame Rioters in-game.

Except, that’s not Neon’s story.

Listen, we go on the internet. We’ve seen your fan theories and side-by-side comparisons of Neon and Zeri, League’s newest champ. And to officially set the record straight: No, they’re not the same characters, no they’re not related, but they were made in tandem by the League and VALORANT teams.

“How did it get started?” You ask. As many things do, the Agents Team Lead John “Riot MEMEMEMEME” Goscicki and League Champions Team Lead Ryan “Reav3” Mireles were scheming.

011422_NeonChampionInsights_Sprint.jpg

MIGHT MESS AROUND AND MAKE CHARACTERS TOGETHER
“A long time ago we were brainstorming what we could do for the launch of Arcane (League’s new animated show on Netflix—go watch it). It was a huge moment for all of us at Riot, so I messaged Goscicki to ask if he wanted to co-launch a champion and Agent together during the event,” recalls Mireles.

“It made a lot of sense, a lot of the VALORANT Agents team worked on the Champions team before—Goscicki included—and we share a lot of the same processes. And a lot of Riot players play both League and VALORANT. So we thought it’d be cool if they could play these two characters in both games,” Mireles shares.

“I actually remember that even before that conversation, you and I would message each other and say, ‘One day we’ll co-launch characters. One day we’ll collaborate and it’ll be cool,’” laughs Goscicki. “And then when this opportunity came up we were like, ‘IS TODAY THE DAY???’ And yes, it finally was the day.”

But before they got started, the team needed to figure out what they were actually making.

League and VALORANT are very different games in very different IPs. Sure, they’re both online competitive games developed by a small indie company with a penchant for nerfing your main. But League’s set in a fantasy world where champions actually use abilities to get kills, whereas in VALORANT, shooting matters and you don’t kill with abilities (allegedly). They just create tactical opportunities to take the right shot.

That meant Mireles and Goscicki needed to do a bit of groundwork before development really began.

“When either of our teams get started, we generally have a pretty good understanding of our goals. But when it came to Zeri and Neon we just... didn’t really know what that space looked like,” admits Mireles.

“In League we have diversity goals in terms of role, region, gender, and playstyle. VALORANT has most of these as well—but they’re very different from what we do in League. So we needed to make sure we found a space that was good for both of our games, and was exciting for players. Because if no one wanted to play these characters, what was the point?” Mireles asks.

That meant the characters needed to stand on their own. Sure, a bunch of us play both games, but the majority choose one and stick with it. And while adding a mute K-pop heartthrob who assassinates people with magical moon weapons gifted from his twin sister who lives in space to VALORANT just because Aphelios exists in League might be a fun idea, that doesn’t mean it works.

Old friends and good intentions aside... how the actual f*&^ do you design a champ and an Agent together? The answer is surprisingly simple: Combine teams.

LIGHTNING CAN STRIKE TWICE
“I’m a huge fan of VALORANT. When it first released, I talked to a few of the game designers on the team like, ‘You know, I’d love to make an Agent some time...’ And so when we were told about this opportunity I just jumped at it,” Game Designer August “August” Browning laughs. “Making two characters in tandem meant we faced a bunch of new constraints, which is fun and exciting as a designer. We needed to find a shared power source—but something that works in both League and VALORANT. We needed to figure out if their personalities were similar or opposite and complementary... There were so many questions that needed to be answered.”

Let’s start with the power source.

League’s a world of endless possibilities when it comes to sources of power for its champions. There’s a space dragon who created the cosmos, a doll with magic scissors, and a literal mountain (whose ultimate is to move really fast—don’t ask). VALORANT has two: Tech and Radiants.

Raze throws grenades, Killjoy uses bots, and Cypher is Great Value Inspector Gadget. Phoenix throws solar fire, Jett uses wind, and Sage resurrects her allies in front of a cracked enemy with an Op. So the team decided to brainstorm some ideas for a shared power source across both games.

011422_NeonChampionInsights_Run.png

During brainstorms, Concept Artists Konstantin “Zoonoid” Maystrenko, Nancy “Riot Sojyoo” Kim, and Gem “Lonewingy” Lim talked about the common denominators between League and VALORANT. The first being speed.

VALORANT rewards you for good rotations, ego peeking, silent flanking, and flash banging your entire team as they push the point. Whereas League’s about running it down mid setting up flank TPs to enable your fed top laner to push a side lane while you goon squad mid. And while there are plenty of Agents who are really mobile (nerf Jett), there’s no one who literally embodies speed.

“Neon’s constant access to speed means she’s the most mobile Agent in VALORANT,” Game Designer Ryan “rycou” Cousart explains. “She completely shatters what we know about speed and mobility in the game and will heavily test players’ moment-to-moment decision making as a duelist. With great risk comes electrifying rewards.” :) LOL (Addition insisted upon by Cousart.)

But “move fast” isn’t a power source. Sure, running laps on the enemy team is fun, but other than “run really fast” what can they do? So the team took a step back to find a source of power, something that explains why Neon and Zeri would go fast.

“We landed on the idea of electricity, which lent itself to the speed idea,” shares Lim. “But it also had this nice tie-in to where we wanted these characters to be from in the real-world: the Philippines. I grew up in Manila, and we were planning on making Filipina characters—something that means a lot to me, personally. And in Manila we have a lot of blackouts, and electricity problems in general. It just felt like a nice little nod to life there.”

011422_NeonChampionInsights_Portraits.png

Neon’s negative charge bandage and Zeri’s positive charge bandage were added to further illustrate their “opposite charges” narrative theme

Lightning also fit who these characters became.

“We latched onto this narrative concept of positive and negative when we saw the electricity concept art. Both Neon and Zeri have this feeling of fighting for their communities, but we still wanted them to be their own people,” explains Narrative Writer Michael “SkiptoMyLuo” Luo.

“Neon’s the negative charge and Zeri’s the positive. Neon’s prickly and a bit more guarded—blunt, sarcastic, slightly biting. It seems like she doesn’t care about you, but deep down she does care and wants to do the right thing. Compared to Zeri’s warm, bright—but still stubborn and impatient at times—personality, we just felt like it was a cool way to tie their electricity theme into who they are,” Luo adds.

011422_NeonChampionInsights_Expression.png

Both Neon and Zeri come from big, supportive families and communities—something inspired by the “Bayanihan Spirit” in Filipino culture—but what makes them different is their reaction to it.

“Neon comes from a big family in the heart of Manilla,” explains Narrative Writer Joe “Riot ParmCheesy” Killeen. “Unlike Zeri, who embraces the love and support from her family, Neon is overwhelmed by it. She still loves them, and has a strong sense of service and duty for her community, but she’s more withdrawn. It’s just a different reaction to a similar upbringing, which we thought was a cool opportunity to explore while making these characters.”

“WHY NOT?”
But combining forces to make characters together still had its challenges. And while we’re one company, we’re still talking about two wholly different games.

“August had some really... interesting ideas for gameplay early on in development,” laughs Cousart. “We knew we wanted to go with speed, and he pitched the idea that Neon had full access to a sprint at all times. With no cooldown.

Speed’s one of the ways we can create consistent learnability in VALORANT. Pros and high-level players can tell you the exact amount of time it takes to go from site-to-site, so the idea that we should just shatter that honestly gave us night terrors,” he continues.

011422_NeonChampionInsights_KeyArt.png

“The reason I gave Neon finger guns is because August wanted Zeri to be reliant on a VALORANT-style gun, so I wanted to try making Neon not have a gun,” says Cousart

Another early game design idea for Neon was a one-shot LIGHTNING HANDS mechanic that was completely accurate while running and reset (don’t ever complain about something being OP again, thanks). And while this was certainly a unique take on an Agent, it was too much. So the team pulled back and put some design constraints into place: No one-shots, sure. Cooldown on sprint? Ehhh... About that.

Neon’s fantasy is to run fast and zap people while doing it. And restricting her access to speed left her feeling pretty sluggish. That meant August and Cousart needed to ask themselves a hard question: Is it worth challenging what we know about movement in VALORANT?

“We decided to go with giving Neon constant access to speed, at all times, with no cooldowns,” August shares. “Instead of going with the cooldown we restricted the strength of it in other ways. Like making it so her guns are down and she can’t jiggle peek at high speeds. This means you’re at risk whenever you want to use her speed, a stronger knife run in many ways. We just felt like, overall, this made more sense for her power fantasy, which is to run fast for extended periods of time.”


“Something August really helped with was challenging the way we think about designing Agents overall, not just Neon,” Cousart shares. “Every time he encountered a guardrail we’d had in place for VALORANT design he just asked us ‘Why not? Why can’t we do this thing?’ It taught us a lot of things: Why VALORANT is different from League, sure. But it also helped us realize where the similarities are.

Cousart continues, “I’m not saying that every guardrail should be smashed, but it taught us to test what we thought was our limit previously, instead of pushing to try new things. It made us learn more about our own game, and changed the way we think about design on Agents in the future.”

But don’t worry. If you’re really concerned about what this means for our next Agents, rest assured that the next one’s definitely not a duelist
Hi, I’m Suke, Principal Illustrator on VALORANT. We’d thought it would be fun to show you a little of what goes into the VALORANT illustration process, our style, and how we tell the story of Astra through art.

But first, watch this!


As part of Episode 2 Act 2, we just added Astra, our newest VALORANT Agent. Like gameplay, it’s not enough just to have something new. Each Agent illustration should really stand on its own while maintaining a style and coherence with the rest of the VALORANT world.

Every Agent illustration starts with a “thumbnail” as shown above.

Thumbnails are quick and simple. We use them so we can explore multiple options without committing, making the whole process time effective, since we can’t go back once we move on to the next steps.

During this process, we keep in mind who the character is, what their attitude and personality are like, if they have distinct features, e.g. a gauntlet. We strive to emphasize what is most important for the character so you can understand them at a glance.

One thing that is always important is focusing on keeping the shapes really cool and exciting. It’s more about that, and less about rendering them realistically—and it’s a pretty tough balance to manage!

VALORANT “KEY ART”
3_9_21_AstraA15KeyArtBTSArticle_embed.jpg

When it comes to what we consider our VALORANT “key art” (the image you see everywhere to promote new stuff), the process begins with thinking from your perspective: what feeling do we want to give you and what do you want to experience?

For Astra, we wanted to show her Controller role in some way. From a character perspective, she is an Agent defined by her source of power. She also has a youthful intensity and playful personality.

So, how do we visually represent these vibes through composition and pose? It starts with a couple of rough sketches, where we pick the direction she’s floating in the air, and give a subtle understanding of her role. This way, the viewer (you) understands that her power is related to the sky.

In the second round, we picked a version of the sketch where her body is slightly tilted. We wanted to give you an idea of how she gains control while also showing hints of that playful personality. As you can see in the video above, it got pushed even further in the next phase, when I angle her face toward the “camera” with a very subtle smirk.

A very fun part of her design is mixing her aura of power with an African Futurism element. I really enjoyed playing with the golden arm effects, especially when the lower arm pieces start to float and her “true” form is revealed.

3_9_21_AstraA15KeyArtBTSArticle_Astra_Wallpapers_purple.jpg

She also has a really powerful ultimate in-game that we are definitely excited about. Even though we couldn’t show all of her abilities in one piece, we can still display her power casting in a really vibrant way.

After all, when everything comes together, she comes alive. The progress from thumbnail to finish even caught me by surprise! Hope you guys like it too!
It’s been a minute since the last time I typed words into a Google Doc–but here we are. Patch 4.04 brought the great wave of Controller balance changes, Yoru’s Rework created the craziest of fakeouts, and we had some … unfortunate bugs here and there. We are still monitoring how the landscape of VALORANT is settling after these changes, so I don’t want to comment prematurely, but there are definitely some fun new plays happening.

I wanted to give a quick note around future balance updates/ongoing conversations. Whether it be a future State of the Agents, Dev Diaries, or any other location, you will see the rest of the design and balance team speaking towards those topics in various channels.

Most of my updates will be focused on New Agents… so with that said, let's get into the next Agent!

Remember, new Agents take 12–15 months to develop, and we focus on questions like:

What is missing from current, core playstyles?
Are there thematics that present big opportunities?
What’s needed for game health?
…and more.
You can also get a better idea about our development priorities (and see us talk) in the latest Neon Dev Diary.

There have been a lot of conversations within the Characters team around Initiators, specifically Sova. His Initiation tools are unique in that they rely on reconnaissance and information gathering to give you and the team tools to decide your next step. So much of VALORANT’s tactical loop revolves around information. Knowing where enemies are/are not and exploiting that info to execute during that sliver of a window is key to many successful wins.

So the notion of another Agent that revolves around the information gathering aspect of the tactical loop has, for a while, been top of mind for us.

Within that space we had a dream for something new, so when “NickWu”joined the team (previously part of Premium Content) we put his expert eyes on this opportunity. Our focus early on was identifying unique gameplay differences within the realm of recon/info, and landed in a space that has more “localized” Initiation and recon tools.

This next Agent should give you a more…intimate feeling when hunting down enemies. Of course, there is our theme—but the thought of giving away too much frightens me so I’ll leave that out.

Well friends, I’ve searched my thoughts for all the words to type here, and that's all I got. I keep having this recurring nightmare that I won’t finish the Act II Battlepass (THE BP IS SO GOOD I NEED TIER 48). I’m scared of the grind, but hey “Herkesin bir korkusu var.”
Welcome back into 2022. This is the Characters Team’s Part 2 of the Yoru Update article from last year. Right upfront, we are aiming to launch the Yoru rework during Episode 4 Act II.

Before we get there, we want to show which way the design direction is headed, our concept explorations to pair with the gameplay changes, and work-in-progress art in-game. Our time as of writing this is focused on bringing these changes to life—these always take quite a bit of time!

The loop of creating art to match gameplay, playtest, and iterate based on feedback always takes a bit of time, but ultimately, it’s what leads to VALORANT’s consistent, tactical gameplay.

Let’s kick this off with a chunky change.

Ep1_a1_article_Divider_yoru.jpg

FAKEOUT

Fakeout—an ability that currently directionally mimics the sound of Yoru’s footsteps to mislead enemies—is now a full copy of Yoru, that runs forward, and when damaged, explodes and debuffs enemies.

As added flavor, when the copy is shot, it faces the direction of the person that fired the shot and flashes towards their position in a conal direction. A change like this requires the most in terms of new art, so we explored how to visualize these changes early on. We expect you have some questions:

How do I decoy, without confusing my team?

Given the fast-paced, millisecond reaction speed nature of VALORANT gameplay, we needed to clearly differentiate:

As an ally of Yoru, you will be to tell that it is his copy, and not the real Yoru. This is so that Yoru is not accidentally confusing his allies between who the real one is, and who the copy is.
As an enemy of Yoru, they will see an identical copy of Yoru.
During playtests we found that the copy was effective at disrupting an enemies moment-to-moment gameplay—which is awesome—but not when your team gets confused. Below are some of the early explorations for how to visualize the ally Yoru copy.Decoy_Material_Thumbnails_2.jpg
How do I look when exploding?!

There needs to be cohesion with what the decoy looks like, how it looks when starting to explode (so that you know something is about to happen) and finally the effect. All of these come together to create a thematically cohesive moment that also communicates the gameplay clearly. Some early explorations down that route.

Flash_States_Pose_Presentation_2.jpg


GATECRASH

Not much has changed with this one since the last post, aside from the team creating the additional art elements needed to bring this portion of Yoru’s update to life. The big thing here is the “puddle” left on the ground after a fake teleport. While the goal of the fake teleport is to create confusion about Yoru’s location, you should be able to go to where the fake teleport occurred, and then understand whether the real Yoru is around, or was it a misdirection?


DIMENSIONAL DRIFT

OK, prepare for a text dump. Here’s a summary of the changes during Yoru’s ult:

Yoru is no longer revealed to enemies
Yoru is able to cast all utility while in Dimensional Drift
Enemies can hear Yoru’s footsteps
Nearsighted is removed
Unequip delay time is increased slightly
Cast delay added when casting Dimensional Drift, preventing the invulnerability frame on cast.
So what were the goals here?


When looking at updating Yoru’s ultimate, we wanted to fix some of the unintended play patterns that have shown up in-game, and instead give Yoru the tools to gain ground on enemies using stealth and initiate the rest of his team to follow.

Reducing the amount of time he can stay invisible should also stop the “invincible” Yoru from simply dancing in his enemy’s face. The new unequip time is meant to hinder the combo of blasting Shorty right after switching to visible. An added delay to his invulnerability stops Yoru from relying too much on running around with his mask in his hand and jamming it on at the first sight of danger.

Instead, Yoru can now see the battlefield unhindered, allowing him to enter enemy zones, take in the state of the map and mastermind a play— based around Yoru’s change that allows abilities during his ult.

Imagine a Yoru that can send teleporters into new places—deep behind enemy lines, place flashes to move enemies off angles for his team, or possibly land the perfect blind to mask his “de-stealth” and claim a frag. We think this update unlocks a lot of new possibilities for a Drifting Yoru, and we hope that it helps bring some of his fantasy of stealth infiltration to life.
With 2021 wrapping ( ;_; where did the year go?) I wanted to send out one more update and give some insight into next year. But first, thank you to everyone who has played VALORANT over this past year. It’s been a wild ride, the fan art, cosplay, memes, hype af plays—all have been more than we could have ever imagined.

I mean we hoped for it, but to actually have it happen blew us away. Hopping into a match and getting to frag out with y’all has been a blast, it’s a once in a lifetime opportunity and we’re looking forward to making more dope stuff next year.

AGENTS YEAR IN REVIEW
Consider this: Within one hour of launching an Agent, they get more total hours of play than all the months of internal playtesting combined.

Yoru tore his way into games, but for some of you, he fell flat on his promise (catch up on those plans in our Yoru article!). Astra map control saw heavy presence in coordinated play. KAY/O suppressed everyone in his path, while at the same time the Patch 3.0 econ changes shook up who and what was played across the board. Viper created some sharp meta shifts, giving her a more prominent home on maps like Icebox and Breeze. Currently, Breach is seeing refreshed life on Fracture as well.

Chamber appeared to close out the year, holding down sites with extreme precision. We have seen many players from different playstyles pick him up, and stick with him. He’s currently settling into his own spot within the roster, and we're excited to see how he evolves and shakes up pro play in the coming year.

Y’all are adapting in new and amazing ways and it’s what keeps VALORANT evolving. We can’t wait to see how you use what we have planned for you in 2022 :)

Speaking of which...

EARLY 2022 BALANCE
Since Patch 3.0, we know things on the Agent balance side have been lighter than our previous Episodes, and going into 2022, we’re looking to change that. We spent a lot of time towards the end of 2021 looking at how we work, restructuring some of the team, re prioritizing work, and welcoming many new members to the team.

What does all of this mean to you? Throughout 2022 you should see a bigger focus on Agent balance. Y’all should be seeing updates to various Agents across the board throughout the first six months of the year, additionally we will be focusing more on addressing emergent balance issues faster than we did in 2021. As those updates are locked down, we will share that information with y’all before they go live. Keep your eyes peeled throughout the year!

THE NEXT AGENT
Mga kaibigan ko,

I’m not sure if this is tradition at this point, but I know many of you immediately scroll to the bottom just to see what is on the horizon. Hopefully all of us are going into next year with renewed energy, ready to take on new and unexpected challenges. Kicking off next year is an Agent who can outpace the rest of the roster, shocking the competition, and sliding straight into the fight.

Before they arrive, we are going to take our usual winter break, recharge, and amp ourselves up for next year.
Ryan “Rycoux” Cousart, game/character designer, is here with me (John Goscicki, character producer) to be upfront with where Yoru is at and where he’s headed. But before we dig into some of the details of what we are looking to do, we wanted to outline our thought process going into Yoru’s update.

It’s fair to say that when Yoru launched there was a TON of excitement around this boyo, but as y’all experimented with him, many of you hit the conclusion that his outputs were not on par with the rest of the roster. We took the time to really look at what Yoru should be offering, and give him more/different tools to bring to life an effective version of the fantasy y’all have latched onto.

So without me blabbering on more, let's hand this over to the person behind the recent design work on Yoru. He has videos!

Ep1_a1_article_Divider_yoru.jpg

DESIGN GOALS: WHAT’S CHANGING?
Hello, again everyone :D

I’m usually constrained to 280 characters when talking about Yoru, so I’m excited to use infinite space to talk about what we’ve been cooking. As John mentioned, we were floored by the excitement for Yoru and our vision for what he could offer to the roster—but felt there were some gaps we needed to address.

Your feedback along with the gameplay from those of you that have tried to make Yoru work has sparked a vision we are hoping to ignite: Yoru becomes a master of deception through an increased output of disinformation from round to round.

So what does this mean?

We’ve learned that in addition to our duelists needing to offer something unique to the field, they also need to have a strong baseline value that any team at any round can rely on in order to maintain strong viability on any team composition. Yoru’s payoff “dream plays” seem to only happen after rounds of conditioning the enemy, which can leave him ineffective for longer than we’d like.

In short, the aim is for Yoru to have better tools to trick opponents, a stronger baseline value across his kit, and higher impact per round. But what does this all look like? Please consider everything below a work in progress and not final change notes.

IT GO RIGHT FOOT UP, LEFT FOOT FAKEOUT
The first ability to look at is Fakeout, the footsteps decoy that drove a lot of the deceptive plays that we loved to see. To help with Yoru’s mind games, we’ve decided to replace the footsteps with a new visual: a carbon copy of Yoru that runs forward, and upon getting shot, will wind up and explode, debuffing enemies.

BLACK LEATHER GLOVES, NEW SEQUENCE
With Gatecrash, we’ve lowered the range at which enemies can see and hear the tether on the map while it travels. We’ve also increased its travel speed by 20%. In addition to these quality of life improvements, Yoru can now activate the tether from a distance to trigger a fake teleport, playing the same audio and visuals as if he were teleporting.


EITHER WAY, WE ‘BOUT TO DRIFT
We're not ready to share all the changes we're testing internally on Yoru right now, but we're confident our rework will help unlock Yoru's potential. This may include testing a few changes to Dimensional Drift help Yoru break sites wide open.

THE NEXT UPDATE
Although we’re confident these changes will help Yoru get to a better state, when he drops early next year, we’ll continue to monitor them to ensure we can quickly make adjustments accordingly. I know you’ve been waiting, but we hope you all end up having as much fun as we’ve had with Yoru (internally) and I’m stoked to see everything you can soon teach us about Yoru and his fresh gear.

Thank you for sticking with us through this journey, we hope this visibility helps bridge the gap between now, and when he (re)launches. We'll post probably just one more of these Yoru specials before his rework drops early next year. In that article, expect to see art updates that go into supporting these changes.

THE VIPER EXPERIMENT

Per the last State of the Agents, Viper’s recent balance was a test of a new approach where we go all-in with Agents that are struggling. Now that the newest version of Viper has been out for a while, we’ve had enough time to evaluate whether this first attempt worked. 

We’re noticing that Viper’s niche is more distinctly carved out across all skill bands. Now that we’re seeing her playrate increase, we’ll monitor to see if she’s still too oppressive post-nerf, as both sides are playing against her utility. 

Y’all should be able to appreciate and succeed within the unique playspace that each Agent occupies, and this approach for Viper is a nudge in that direction. That said, there are some rough edges here we may need to smooth out. 

FUTURE BALANCE

We are looking into releasing updates to Breach, Skye, Yoru, and Astra. 

Breach / Skye
The goal here is to provide Breach and Skye with more self-sufficiency, to do so, we’re looking to remove their ability to dish out 3 consecutive flashes.
For Breach we are looking to balance power across his kit, instead of it all sitting on his flash.
Yoru
We’re exploring an increase to the power within his unique playspace.
One of the big opportunities here is to make “Fakeout” a more impactful ability.
Astra
The galaxy brain Agent provides a specific playstyle to the game, but we’re looking to take some steps to add more counterplay to some of her play patterns that are too oppressive in coordinated play.
Barring resource constraints or development hiccups, you should start to see these changes roll out around Patch 3.0, and hopefully no later than 3.02.

NEW AGENTS

As you saw the latest Act, there was no new Agent bundled with the launch of Breeze. To reiterate; this is because we're prioritizing quality over speed—VALORANT is a game played on the slimmest of margins and we want to make sure everything we put out has the level of refinement you expect.

That said, expect a new Agent for Patch 3.0 :) 

This time around we are throwing in some abilities that should feel familiar to folks who’ve played traditional FPS games their whole lives, but with added elements that will make those recognizable abilities unique within our roster. This is an Agent who’s utility can create moments where you must rely on your gunplay.

Our hope is that the @*&#*&!(&H! #$ &*! *%# &@! *U&^A! “@*!!*(@@*&^” (@&* ^@!^& &@! *&# &^C#^ANG W*^@ $O )(E&# *N@! S!T#$

Huh, I’m sorry my keyboard just stopped working there… oh well. The new Agent is coming soon enough, and we’re looking forward to seeing what you think when they finally say hello! 
VIPER

There’ve been quite a few explorations on Viper over the past few months. After many iterations, we've decided on a direction that should sharpen the ways in which she is uniquely powerful without homogenizing her with other Controllers—and in other ways, push her thematic fantasy.

Her Poison Cloud is unique to her zonal control gameplay and thematic, but feels like it lacks the impact we’d want on her base abilities round over round. Amping up that damage threat is our main goal this time around.

We believe that part of what sets Viper apart is that she makes big bets with her map control. She picks a location, gets set, and dares opponents to take the fight in her world. With that in mind, the Patch 2.06 changes are aimed at increasing that threat to a new level. Internally these changes have been very strong, and we’re excited to see how Viper performs with this buff out in the wild. The team also feels like we’re well positioned to tune her as needed moving forward.

Yoru-banner.png

YORU

Our first update to Yoru in 2.03 was aimed mainly at quality of life improvements, but this time around we’re hoping to move the needle on his power and overall impact.

We think the updates to Gatecrash unlock numerous new play patterns for Yoru and should allow him to apply more of the pressure and mind games he promised at launch. We’re excited to see how this pairs with the buff to Blindside and the added ability to escape bad situations during Dimensional Drift with a little proactive setup.

Given Yoru’s unique space in the game, we’re going to keep a close eye on him and learn how the balance levers he provides affect his impact in the live game.
APPROACH TO BALANCE

VALORANT is now nine months post launch (omg it's been nine months o_o). In that span we’ve learned alot about the impact of our approach to Agent balance. Our previous method was to make small, targeted changes to Agents in hopes that we’d see incremental impact.

Ultimately this approach has not panned out like we hoped. Starting with 2.06, we’re taking a more aggressive approach with our updates, so that we see a larger impact to Agents with each one. This is because we know seeing your Agent in the patch notes over and over can be frustrating, especially when they do not move the needle, so to speak.

As much as we want to get Agent updates out, we also highly value stability in esports and don’t want the entire game meta to shift under our pros’ feet leading into events like Masters and Champions.

With Masters 1 behind us you’re going to see us try out a few things. Viper is up first. Then, as Masters 2 approaches, we’ll evaluate the changes and stabilize versus making large changes as we feel is necessary. Throughout 2021, you should see this pattern: Once a large tourney concludes, we’ll release some larger impact buffs/nerfs, and as the next large one approaches, slow down and focus on stabilization.
It’s John Gosicki, character producer here for another look at our Agents today and tomorrow. We skipped January, but we’re here now! Let's go into it. Last time we hit two big topics: Controllers and hinting at Yoru…who well, isn’t a secret anymore, he’s here, in the game now, shooting people o_o

With Brimstone and Omen changes live since 2.0, we’re seeing them settle into some healthier places. Right now, there is a more even choice competition between the two of them that highlight their respective strengths.

That leaves us with one more Controller though.

viper-banner.png

VIPER
Many of you have been perusing the patch notes, waiting for some larger updates to address issues that Viper’s run into. I’m gonna be the bearer of bad news that the next patch is not when you’ll see that update. We need to spend more time really defining where she fits within the choice competition among Brimstone and Omen.

She has a really unique spot within the roster, and we want to make sure that any work we do goes towards highlighting the specific play patterns she represents, in conjunction with her power fantasy.

Yoru-banner.png

YORU
Yoru tore his way into the fight this year, and we’re stoked to see how excited y’all have been to play him. (I personally may have already bought Yoru stickers for my notebook :P thank you for the fan art!).

It’s only been a few weeks since he launched but we’ve noticed that mastery of his infiltration tools are not leading to the level of success we’d hoped for. So, given the current state of Yoru, we’re looking into some near future buffs.

WHAT YOU’RE ALL HERE FOR
So….um, this leaves us with the future. Y’all have been asking for another Controller, and well, that’s what you’re getting next!

As we’ve discussed before, we’re trying to push the boundaries when it comes to Agent abilities in VALORANT, and so far, everything we’ve thrown at you has been less disruptive than we thought they’d be. That said, our next Controller is a cosmic shift from the play patterns you’ve grown accustomed to. This one is for all you “galaxy brain” players out there that like to study everything that happens on a map.

There are still a few topics we’d like to dive into, but that will come in a different article. So keep and eye out over the coming weeks for some deep discussions on VALORANT Agents.
Howdy friends, with 2020 almost behind us we wanted to take a moment to talk about our current, high level thoughts around Agents, and a bit about how we are thinking of the future.

When the game launched we were focused on getting all the extreme outliers into a reasonable place. Right now things are fairly stable, but there are still some Agents/Classes that need some deeper thought put into them.


CONTROLLER POWER, DUELISTS VS INITIATORS
In particular, we have some plans to address the total power of Controllers (Omen, Viper, Brimstone) and to better differentiate the roles of Duelists and Initiators. At a high level, we want to encourage people to play with their teammates as much as possible and we believe that giving our Initiator and Controller roles a bit more team-focused power will help achieve that end. We are aiming to have our first set of changes to Controllers launching with Episode 2 and additional changes to Initiators and Duelists throughout Q1 of 2021.

With the release of Killjoy we felt that the Agents within Valorant have a good range of abilities to either augment, or enhance our core Tac Loop (Someday we will make a post about this). Even before the game launched we were feeling that there were some gaps within the abilities/tools Agents provided, this was evident due to there only being two Agents (Sova and Breach) with tools to break onto sites, the class known as Initiators. With all of that in mind, we quickly got to work on another Initiator, Skye. She not only provides crucial tools to break onto sites, but also per-round healing choice competition with Sage.


NEW AGENTS, MORE RISKS
From the start our goal with Agents is that they have a unique spot within the roster. Whenever a new Agent drops it keeps the game feeling fresh, making you rethink all of your current tactics, and form new ones that build on all the skills you have learned so far. Now that the basics are in place, we are going to take more risks with what each Agent introduces to the game, pushing some boundaries, and evolving what is possible in an ability based tac shooter.

For now we are keeping these boundary-pushing ideas a secret.

That said, we wanted to sneak some insight into the future here. The year will tear open with a Duelist for all you “lurkers” out there, who will keep you on your toes around which angles are truly safe.

When is Vex coming out?
As long as everything goes as planned, Vex should be coming out in September. We're working on getting her source of power (aka her shadow) just right in game, which is why she's releasing a bit after the Sentinels of Light event. In the meantime, we hope you enjoy getting to know the gloomy yordle who holds a special place in our goth kid hearts <3

(In case you missed it, Vex is part of the Rise of the Sentinels story that you can play through in the client right now!)

Reav3, Lead Producer of Champions Team

Are Prestige skins canon? Does Prestige Ascended Pantheon's existence mean Atreus is now some kind of super being in the lore?
Prestige skins are not canon. They're "what-if" style executions that try to answer the question: What might the biggest, most epic victory look like for this champ in this thematic?

All the Prestige skins do this, but it's an especially topical question for Prestige Ascended Pantheon, since the Sentinels of Light event is based in core Runeterra canon. The real way the story ends is [[SPOILERS, GO PLAY RISE OF THE SENTINELS!]]. For Prestige Ascended Pantheon, we get to see Atreus kick Ruined Pantheon's butt and become more powerful than ever before as a result. That kind of self-actualization is a big part of what makes Atreus feel strong, and talks to the core themes that make him awesome. That’s the kind of space Prestige gets to explore.

Riot Wilkingham, Sr. Manager Narrative Editing

How do you pronounce Akshan?
You’ve come to the right linguistics nerd! Akshan is pronounced /ɞkʃən/. The first vowel is not often heard in US English, but is common around the world.

For folks without that vowel sound as a common feature of their speech, it can help to triangulate: The sound is more open/emphasized than the /ə/ sound (the second vowel in the name Akshan), but more closed/centered in the mouth than the /ɐ/ sound (the vowel US English speakers generally hear in “not”). Shaping the vowel is a bit like reserving enough space for a gumball in the very center of your mouth and filling that open space with the vowel sound.

And just in case phonetics isn’t your one true calling, here’s a sound clip.
How do you decide when a champion is manaless?
Mana provides some important champion design values automatically.

Mana naturally paces the game, especially during lane phase. The game works best when there’s an ebb and flow to the action. Most patterns are made less compelling if they don’t have good breaks in the action, but many otherwise very good spell designs would be correct to spam without a limiter like mana.

This is especially true for very safe patterns—if a champion is consistently able to avoid any enemy harass and still succeed, or has excessive healing on their kit, mana is often the only reason they’d need to return to base. Very few ranged champions are manaless for this reason, and the amount of healing a manaless champion is allowed to have on their base kit is quite limited (we are nerfing Viego’s sustain, for example).

Additionally, many spells want to be very high stakes when cast. Rocket Grab is a huge part of what makes Blitzcrank compelling, but he really needs to care about hitting every cast. It needs to cost him something important when he casts and misses, both to balance the spell and to really drive the impact of that moment. Cooldowns are a useful tool for this as well, but can only be pushed so far—how long would Rocket Grab’s cooldown need to be if Blitzcrank didn’t use mana? Mana lets us calibrate the stakes for each spell without needing to create a lot of additional rules.

When making a new champion, we default to using mana. We only make a champion manaless when there are good reasons why they shouldn’t use it; even for patterns that don’t get as much value out of mana as usual (generally melee champions without strong fishing tools or poke, who need to expose themselves to ranged harass in order to lane at all), it’s usually still better to include it. With that said, there are some good reasons why we shouldn’t use mana for particular champions.

Secondary resource bars like Grit, Heat, or Energy compete with mana in the UI. We can include both when both are important, but these secondary resources often cover the same values as mana, and we don’t include both when we don’t need both. Rumble’s Heat, for example, gates his ability to spam his spells and forces either downtime or conflict when he overheats, which naturally paces out his lane phase.

Individual champions sometimes have their own important reasons not to use mana. In Viego’s case, mana would create a significant clarity problem around his transformations: Does he use mana during possession moments? If he doesn’t, what does he display for his mana bar? These could be learnable, but it’d put a lot of stress on the understandability of an already complex champion.

In other cases, a more continuous pattern is important to the champion—it’s a lot of what makes Yasuo compelling to play as, for example. We need to be careful with these cases, as they put a lot of pressure on the rest of the champion’s kit to make the right tradeoffs and be balanced appropriately. This can often leave individual spells feeling underwhelming when balanced, but it’s sometimes worth that tradeoff.

Riot Axes, Lead Champion Designer

How do you decide when to micropatch a champion, versus waiting for the normal patch?
In general, we’ll micropatch a champion if a balance change swings much harder than intended. For example, if we had a champion with a winrate that was only say 1-2% over Balance Framework bounds, but they were nerfed by 5-6%, we'll consider a quick correction. The last time this happened was at the end of 2020, when a nerf to Kayn dropped his winrate by about 6%, so we walked it back some. If it looks like a smaller overshot, we’ll generally wait until the next patch and reassess once there’s more data.

For new or updated champions, we approach balance (and micropatches) a bit differently, as players are still learning the champ and there’s no existing data to go off of. In these cases, we’ll use a pre-established winrate range to determine whether a micropatch is needed. To determine these ranges ahead of time, we look at the type of mastery curve we expect the champion to have, then use that to set their winrate bounds. For example, we’d expect a more challenging champion (such as Aphelios) to start off at a lower winrate that climbs over time, whereas an easier champ (such as Neeko) may start off at a higher winrate that climbs less.

We use this info to construct the likely day 0 (launch), day 1, and day 7 winrate bounds. If a champion ever falls well outside these bounds, then we’ll quickly micropatch as an immediate follow-up. As a recent example, Samira’s winrate on Day 0 was above 50%, which we know tends to mean she released too strong (50%+ is usually pretty high for any new champ), so we micropatched a nerf.

And while we’re here, let’s talk bugs… The easiest way to assess whether we should micropatch a bug or wait for the next patch is a combination of 1) the probability of the bug happening (e.g. if it requires a 100 minute game, it’s probably not a big deal), and 2) how impactful the bug is (e.g. does it crash someone out of the game? Better micropatch it.).

Jag, Lead Game Designer - Summoner’s Rift Team

With information split across dozens of subreddits, twitter accounts, and sometimes news articles, it's incredibly difficult to keep track of Riot communications. Any thoughts on maybe reviving the "Red Tracker" from the Boards as an informal list of Riot comments?
(If you haven’t seen it or have long forgotten its existence, the "Red Tracker" was a feed that showed every Rioter’s post made on our old Boards discussion forums.)

I promise this wasn't a planted question, but very conveniently, we recently launched the @loldev twitter account which shares posts from devs, basically filling that "Red Tracker" function we used to have on the Boards—making it easier to find dev communication on Twitter. We'll also use the account to post links to blogs and articles like Quick Gameplay Thoughts and the Patch Notes. We're gonna keep the feed pretty focused, since we won't be signal boosting off-topic stuff. Sorry about it, food and sneaker and dog enthusiasts.

To the broader sentiment, dev talk being scattered across lots of platforms is a drawback to Riot's approach of.... letting devs talk on lots of platforms. It’s not ideal, but we don’t see this as an urgent problem: Our stance is that talking with devs should make your League experience better, but shouldn't be required to get the info you need to play the game. Final gameplay changes always end up in the Patch Notes, for example, but PBE iterations don't hit must-know status because they're not what you end up playing in-game. We're alright with discussions about those iterations living exclusively on social media.

It's also, weirdly, a nice problem to see called out in the sense that it tells us players find dev posts interesting, as opposed to not really caring. As long as there's a desire to hear more from the devs directly, we'll keep posting.
I love champion animations in WR. Have any plan of doing them in League sometime?
I love those introductory animations too! Beyond being cool to watch, they help introduce new players who have never played League of Legends on PC to the different champions. Each one tells a little story that conveys the personality and power of that champion. We've talked about doing something similar in League PC and we still might, but it'd require a lot of work inside our current Champion Select screen. Currently our priority is to improve that system so it's as responsive and accurate as possible. So until we're happy there we won't be adding features like this, but we'll certainly revisit it later.

Riot Brightmoon, Lead Gameplay Producer

When writing the music theme for a new character, what are the factors that are considered when making that theme?
There are so many aspects of a champion that can inform their theme that it can sometimes feel a little overwhelming to choose which direction to head in. One thing that can help is determining the core elements of a champion alongside the teams we work with. This core theme is usually two to three words that uniquely describe them—-not enough to detail every little element, but enough to know who they truly are and what makes them different.

Sometimes these things can be quite apparent, like for Nunu and Willump's theme. The flute and music in general plays a huge role in Nunu's life, so the flute is included in their theme. Other times these core elements manifest over the evolution of a theme. Fiddlesticks' theme is a good example of this, where a song is being sung about the signs of Fiddlesticks’ return; and while it's unsettling, it's not until the end of the song that the true terror of Fiddlesticks appears. Lastly, some core components of a champion can be hidden or reimagined in a theme. Sylas’ theme is an example of this, where the middle section is a darker and more tense reimagining of the recognizable string part we hear at the beginning of Demacia Rising.

Alongside the core elements, there are three important considerations when writing a champion’s theme…

Personality – Does the champion have a lighthearted attitude, or are they filled with rage? Are they fun to be around or do they inspire terror in their enemies?
Backstory – Is the champion someone who's on a quest to understand what he has become? Do they have a tragic past, or an inspiring tale filled with heroic deeds? Champions' backstories have shaped who they are, so it's an important part of their music.
Location – Different parts of Runeterra have different musical sounds and stylistic influences. If their home is an important part of their personal story (ex: they’re demigods from the Freljord), this may be an important part of their sound.
We consider similar elements when working on skin themes as well. Generally, musical arrangement and styling is defined by the location or alternate world from which our skins originate. From there, the musical approach is very focused on tone. Asking questions like… “Are the champions included in this skin line fun, eccentric, and daring? Or perhaps is this skin line futuristic, gritty, and serious?” For example, we knew the PROJECT pillars to focus on were future technology, neon dystopia, and awe inspiring yet oppressive. Having pillars like this can help conjure up a clear direction to take the music.

The Riot Music Team

Which champion has the most pentakills?
That’s a classic question! Looking at Ranked Solo/Duo games from patch 11.11, Samira has the most pentakills, followed by Master Yi and Katarina. That doesn’t account for popularity, though. Per game played, it turns out the pentakilling-est champ is… still Samira (.018 pentas per game), then Master Yi (.018) and Katarina (.015)—all three are similarly popular!

Some other pentakill trivia:

Unsurprisingly, you’ll want to avoid playing enchanter or tank supports if you’re chasing the pentakill high. Soraka, Braum, Rell, and Taric all had 0(!) pentas in the sample of Ranked Solo/Duo games.

Every single champion had pentakills in ARAM! Master Yi beats Samira for the top spot in this game mode with an impressive .082 pentas per game, while Samira and Katarina score .071 and .054, respectively.

Even high ranked players aren’t safe from the pentakill trio—Master Yi (.017), Samira, (.015), and Katarina (.011) still have the most pentas per game in Diamond and above.
Are there plans to add new items to the shop?
We are working on two new items and one heavily reworked one. Ideally at least two of these will make it to live during the summer; the third one we’re not sure about yet, as it may slip to preseason.

First off, we’re introducing a new Legendary tank item that has a binding like Knight’s Vow or Zeke’s Convergence—but this time, the twist is that it’s enemy-targeted. The item grants damage reduction against just that targeted enemy, as well as a tenacity reduction aura against them if you’re close to them. This item should be fantastic for dealing with a fed carry or single-threat team composition, as well as matching a threatening split pusher.

Second, while we’re talking about split pushing, let’s talk about Sanguine Blade. This item has an awesome solo operative fantasy, but its stat package has struggled to support it. We’re reworking this item and taking it out of the lethality space, broadening its appeal to any AD champion focused on side laning as their win condition. We’ll be shifting the item’s power so that it partially indexes in 1vX potential (which is fairly solo queue focused), but now it’ll also partially index into taking a tower that is being defended by a durable opponent (which is fairly pro focused).

We’re planning to ship these items in the same patch, as they’re both pretty top lane/split push focused.

Third, we have an enchanter support Legendary item in development. Historically, enchanters have been entirely defenseless when caught, making them exceptionally punishing to play when the enemy team has powerful aggressors. The new item will provide burst resistance in the vein of Zhonya’s Hourglass, but with a much more supportive bend.

Finally, we’re considering item spaces that we think are worthy to work on for preseason. No firm plans there yet, but stay tuned.

Jag, Lead Game Designer on Summoner’s Rift Team

Do you plan to add in-game canon LGBT+ couples in LoL? Just like Lucian and Senna, or Rakan and Xayah.
We see games as a forward-facing medium for a new generation of diverse storytellers. Because stories offer a window into someone else’s world, they provide an opportunity to connect and create empathy for one another. We want to encourage that connection for our audience and one way we can do so is by continuing to highlight LGBTQIA+ stories.

Specifically, for LGBTQIA+ champions in League of Legends, our storytelling approach will vary. For some, their voice lines may clue you in. For others, there are a variety of stories in different mediums that we’re keen to tell. As an example, one that will be coming shortly after this post is centered around the “Festival of the Nightless Eve'' featuring Diana and Leona. 

Whether or not our LGBTQIA+ champions are in relationships with one another will depend on the characters and where they are in their own personal stories. Some may be single, some couples, some may be ex-lovers/enemies, and others might have budding interests and are still discovering who they are.

TL;DR

We want our stories to be a place where all players can see themselves and have characters they want to relate to. Players make it clear that they want more of this, universally. So we want to continue adding in LGBTQIA+ champions in League (though they might not necessarily be a part of a couple). It paves the way for opportunity and allows us to be true to ourselves and our audience as well.

Riot Yuujou, LGBTQIA+ Lead

I like Xerath’s new skin, and I was wondering how you decide to make a non human champ into a human for a skin?
So glad you're enjoying the skin! Turning champions into humans for skins lets us deliver on a totally new fantasy, which is super exciting. There can be a lot of challenges in this space, though, since we have to make sure we're hitting the gameplay clarity bar and creating something that will work with the existing rig and animations. In cases where we think the thematic fit for the champion works really well and brings something new, we'll do our best to come up with creative solutions to make it work. Xerath is a good example where we've been able to retain his overall silhouette while showing a very different side of him.

We want to avoid doing thistoo often for a champion so that we don't undercut the core of their identity, but are excited when we can show them in a new light.
Hi I just read your "Clarity in League" post and was wondering if you've considered adding an option to not show skins in game which one could toggle on/off as they please?
Real talk here - cosmetics are how we pay our bills and fund ongoing development on League. Skins are a huge part of that, and many players like skins because they’re displayed to others. Introducing uncertainty as to whether anyone sees a skin you love and purchased risks significantly undercutting our ability to run as a business.

It sounds kind of cold to put it like that, but really we want to keep League running for the long haul so you can keep playing and we can keep working on the game we all love. Our belief is that the “free-to-play model supported by power-neutral cosmetics” is quite player friendly overall, and we’ll keep working to level up gameplay clarity across the board so League can stick around for years (decades?) to come.

Meddler, Game Director

How do you determine clarity with chromas?
Chroma clarity is measured by the same gameplay clarity guidelines as any other skin in League. You can read more about our approach here, but in short—as a player or spectator, you should easily and quickly be able to identify a champion, even when it’s using a skin. The same goes for chromas, because those are skins too after all. As such, they go through the same feedback channels and vetting process as skins.

The guiding light and main pillars of a chroma, from a creative perspective, are that it remains in the same theme and universe as the “parent" skin—it should maintain the original thematic while being limited to only a texture change. In most cases, it should feel like this is just another outfit that champ pulled out of their closet on Tuesday, instead of Monday, with the same thematic shape language and design sensibilities.

Lux_Lux_SpaceGroove_Chromas.jpg

As skin catalogs grow and chroma catalogs grow with them, clarity does become more of a challenge. There are only so many colors in the color wheel, and we use a lot of the same color theory techniques when designing skins and chromas (complementary, analogous, triadic, tertiary color combinations). Sometimes there is visual overlap between a chroma and a base champion, or another skin, or even overlap between two skins in a champion’s catalogue. However, with the combination of materials, shape language, themes, and proportions of those colors we can use, we should see unique skins designs that are only limited by our imaginations.

MechaHawk, Skins Art Director

Why couldn’t Lancer Blitz have a new walk animation when Space Groove Blitz is piloted by literal cats and has a new walk animation?
Great question! I would say it’s a combination of factors.

First and foremost, from a product standpoint, Space Groove Blitzcrank is a Legendary skin, which typically includes animation changes, while Lancer Blitz is an Epic skin, which typically doesn’t. This is a pretty important factor, but it doesn’t address the fact that we once said Lancer Blitz couldn’t have a floaty animation for clarity reasons… and then we gave Space Groove Blitz a floaty walk. So what changed?


Going back a few years to when Lancer Blitz was created in 2017, League didn't have as clear of standards for clarity. We knew that certain things broke it, but we hadn’t done as much of a deep dive, so sometimes we’d play it too safe and sometimes we’d go too far. Since then, we’ve solidified our approach, which includes overarching guidelines as well as craft-level considerations for champions and skins.
Blitz_Silhouette_For_Loc-Ask-Riot-04-09-2021.jpg

One of the things we now view as key for champion recognition in 2021 is their silhouette, which is basically their shadow. So when we were working on Space Groove Blitz+Crank, we put a lot of effort into making sure the silhouette was still quickly and easily recognizable at Blitz—if you were to give him the “who’s-this-champ?” test, his large hands read similarly to base, as do his head and shoulder pads. This combined with readable VFX and SFX made us feel confident we could give Space Groove a floaty walk without putting clarity at risk. His updated walk is still pretty jerky to mimic the base, but it’s much more stylized and “dance-y” now.

Just-Shadow-Blitzes-Ask-Riot-04-09-2021.jpg

Going back to Lancer Blitzcrank, we didn’t have these well-defined standards yet and were mostly going off of intuition. But if we apply our new frameworks retroactively, I still think we made the right call (as controversial as it might be). Lancer Blitzcrank’s silhouette is harder to read than Space Groove’s, particularly because he has pointy drills instead of “hands.” This muddies his silhouette when he’s standing in lane, running around, and when his Q is coming at you. He also has really large shoulder pauldrons. In short, we’d already pushed Lancer Blitzcrank to the limit in so many other aspects of gameplay and visual clarity that we had to pull back in other places.

MechaHawk, Skins Art Director

I understand some spells are super loud because it's important, like Sera casting her ult. But why is PsyOps Pyke's camouflage sound the loudest thing in the game? It's incredibly distracting and stressful, far beyond its importance, especially given how much it’s spammed in lane. Mecha Kingdoms Draven catching his axes is another example.
This is something that happens from time to time in the process of sound designing a skin or champion. Like you said, there are moments we think certain abilities should be louder than others in priority of the sound set. But you, the players, are ultimately the ones that help us determine if we need to adjust certain sounds that could be distracting to gameplay. When these moments are identified, we try our best to discuss these concerns as a discipline to prioritize the issues to make sure the clarity and readability is there, and fix it if needed.

In other words... Thank you for bringing these up! We’ll definitely look into it.

OCRAM818, Sound Design Lead

Can you address Storm Dragon Lee Sin? It feels terrible in terms of clarity.
Ah, Storm Dragon Lee Sin. We talked a bit about this in the recent lol pls video, and while we don’t have much to add, we wanted to recap here.

When Storm Dragon Lee Sin first went to PBE, we heard he was difficult to recognize and very flashy. With this info, we decided to make some changes before he went live, including cutting his ponytail. This was a case of us trying to make a kickass skin but going too hard, so we had to rein things in.

This might be a little spicy, but we’re okay with the clarity level now. That said, we think Lee Sin and his skins across the board are suffering from a larger clarity issue, which is that Lee doesn’t really have a distinct character model silhouette. Most of his character recognition is carried through animation, which becomes particularly tricky when we’re making Legendary skins. At some point we’ll want to take a look at Lee Sin and adjust him across all skins and his base in order to define a clear and distinct silhouette, but we don’t have concrete plans to make changes any time soon.

Bellissimoh, Director of Production

I read the clarity blog, and I was wondering if VO was a part of it? Some champs have VO that’s repetitive and can be distracting.
We have a LOT of VO in our game, and as the game evolves, older voice-over systems are in continuous need of modernization. Whether that is “stop saying 'throw another rock!'” or “stop calling me Summoner!,” we hear you when you say a champ is missing the Goldilocks sweet spot of enjoyable, aspirational champion fantasies and a clear audio mix that empowers rock-solid gameplay.

To that end, we have a multi-faceted approach to clarity in the voice-over space. In particular, we're working on some new efforts that you can expect to see more of over the coming months:

Refining our volume standards across our champion roster (both old champs and new) as well as consistency across languages.
Starting a holistic modernization effort to address remastering, dialogue editorial, audio fidelity, and quality improvements, with a focus on clear intelligibility of lines. You can probably think of champions whose VO is hard to understand, and we’re looking to touch on those over time.
Enacting standards around both line length as well as a performance emphasis on tighter, projected, MOBA-ready lines (actors shouldn't speak too slowly or quietly). Some of our older champions could get pretty long-winded at times, but hopefully our most recent projects feel better. We have put much greater emphasis on context sensitivity: Lines are brief when they need to be brief, and champs can open up and monologue a bit more when there’s a lull in action.
Holding ourselves to a less-is-more approach, such as culling unnecessary or distracting lines and reining in spell casts to be consistent and recognizable. This is most important for ults, which should have immediately recognizable, memorable callouts similar in importance as the champ’s silhouette.
Making strategic decisions around which players need to hear what information. For example, recall lines were moved to self-only and kill lines were moved to self/enemy team only.
Using VGUs, VUs, and VO updates to refresh and modernize champ VO to benefit from much more variety (old champs like Teemo and Jax only have around 10 lines!), add new life and lore, and most importantly, to stop saying Summoner.
We’re always looking to do what we can both to address the behaviors of currently existing champions and new products, so please continue to talk to us about what you like and don’t like. While we can’t address everything overnight (so many champs!), it’s invaluable insight for the team.
I'm not sure if they talked about tahm kench mini rework but I would like to know when they would be releasing it. thanks daddy rito
We’re still committed to the Tahm Kench mini update and are planning to ship it this summer. We’re feeling good about the gameplay changes, which you may have seen in the recent Arcana PBE video. This was sadly a bit of an oversight and not a secret teaser, as we still need to update some of Kench's animations before he’s unbenched. In case you missed it, our plan for Tahm is to address some long-standing issues around pro binding. In other words, a lot of Tahm Kench’s current power is best utilized by highly-coordinated teams, which means he ends up much weaker for the rest of the player base. To address this power discrepancy, we’re planning to move Devour to his ultimate (and buff it) and turn his W into a less-coordination reliant engage tool (think Abyssal Voyage, but shorter range and just for Tahm Kench… and with some added CC).

RiotPetrie, Product Lead

Can we get an update on what’s going on with server transfers?
As many of you are aware, Account Transfers in League of Legends were disabled for several months. This has raised many questions: What was the reason for disabling the service? And why did it take so long to re-enable it? We hope to answer these questions here!

Where We Are Today
After almost 6 months down, Account Transfers are finally enabled again in all supported Riot regions, with a higher transfer success rate and better operational tools.

Why Transfers Were Disabled
The Account Transfer service orchestrates a number of things behind the scenes. A player's account has a ton of specific data associated with it, like your friends list and inventory. This data is distributed across multiple services, each responsible for managing different pieces of that information.

When you transfer an account from one region to another, all of the data stored across services needs to move over. For most players, this process goes smoothly and transfers work as expected—things like their Summoner Name, champions unlocked, and skins purchased would follow them from one region to another. But towards the end of last year, we started seeing more players run into issues where only part of their information would successfully transfer.

This is where things can get tricky; if any dependent service fails to transfer successfully, the entire transfer might fail, or worse, appear to complete successfully but miss crucial account data during the transfer. When this happens, it’s difficult to detect the root cause of the issue, as it could be caused by any one of the dependent services in the chain misbehaving.

This meant that if a player ran into a problem with an Account Transfer, we’d have to manually dig into what happened every time. It wasn’t possible to solve in an automated way, which meant that players would have to submit a ticket to Player Support and wait for the various teams who owned the underlying services to figure out what was wrong. It was creating a pretty bad experience that took way longer than we’d like to resolve, especially as more players ran into these issues.

We knew we needed a better system, so we temporarily put a pause on transfers to give the underlying service a refresh.

Why the Pause Took So Long
At the end of the year, we set out to create a more reliable server transfer experience, which meant upgrading the tools we use to monitor and deploy Account Transfers as well as surfacing some of the downstream errors that were causing problems. During this effort, we discovered some of these improvements could only be made by partnering with other teams at Riot, which took a bit more time—we didn’t want to disrupt their schedule and projects with unexpected work.

In the end, it took a little longer than originally planned to revive Account Transfers, but we hope the backend refresh provides a noticeably better and more reliable experience going forward!
Does "Your Shop" randomize what skin you get when you press the button, or is it predetermined?
The skins in Your Shop are specially picked for you long before you hit that button! We actually dive into the details behind how your offers are selected and personalized in the Tech Blog article Stocking Your Shop with Data Science—check it out if you’d like to know more.

Riot Aryeila, Senior Editor

What are the flowers like in Bilgewater? If any grow there.
Bilgewater itself is just one (large and grimy!) city, nestled away in the Serpent Isles. Since the population of paylangi outsiders is crammed in pretty tightly in their wooden shanties, there’s not much room for plants and wildlife—but wild tropical blooms definitely sprout up wherever they can, especially among the ruins of the older Buhru architecture. I imagine you might see particularly colorful lily or lotus flowers, as well as far less pleasant specimens like flytraps, or worse...

But Bilgewater is a thriving port, and you can usually buy pretty much anything you want, if you have enough coin. I’m not going to actually use the words “black market florist,” but I bet you could find someone in Bilgewater who could hook you up with whatever you’re looking for, even if it takes weeks or months to arrive. Roses from Noxus? Dried spirit blossoms from Ionia? Hop vines from Demacia? All this and more can be yours, for the right price.

But such things are generally considered pretty frivolous to the average citizen, and it’s probably only the wealthiest ship captains who could ever hope to maintain anything as ostentatious as a garden, in their private residences high, high up above the quays, wharves, and carving bays.

Riot Scathlocke, Narrative Editorial Director

Hello Riot, I have a question regarding the ARAM. Is Champ Select totally random? How do you make sure both teams don't get the same champion, even as people reroll?
The logic for ARAM’s Champ Select is in a service we call TeamBuilder. The TeamBuilder server knows what champ every player has rolled, what’s on the bench, etc., for both teams. TeamBuilder prevents any player from rolling a champion that someone else has rolled.

The League client’s Champ Select UI obediently gives you the champion that TeamBuilder tells it to give you. And when you click “Reroll,” the client tells TeamBuilder that you requested a reroll. TeamBuilder determines what champ you rolled, and tells the client, which displays it to you.

In other words, the whole Champ Select process is server-authoritative. TeamBuilder is in charge. And every roll, reroll, trade, bench swap, and lock-in is transactional. That means it is impossible for two players to, say, reroll the same champion at the same time; TeamBuilder will carefully process one reroll, then the other.

As for whether it is “totally random,” that depends on what you mean. Everytime you roll or reroll, the champion you get is randomly drawn from the set of available champions that you could roll at that moment, but that set is not random. In set-math terminology, it is:

((A ∪ C ∪ O) \ R) \ D

Where A is the set of 65 always-free-to-play ARAM champs, C is the current free-to-play rotation of champs, O is the set of champs you own, R is the set of champs that have been rolled by players on both teams so far, and D is the (hopefully empty) set of disabled champs. In simpler terms… You will always receive a random champion that isn’t already on a team or bench.

The initial 10 rolls follow this process too; at the start of Champ Select, TeamBuilder simply does this once for each player, to determine everyone’s initial champion.

Notably, champs that appeared in previous games, or even queue-dodged champ selects, have no effect on any of this whatsoever. That means it is entirely possible to get a streak of the same champ in different games, or a streak of champs you really like, or a streak of champs you really don’t like. When that happens, it can feel like it is not random, even though it is.

So, when your mouse hovers hesitantly above the reroll button, all I can say is, “Good luck!”
How do you choose which champions to make a Legendary skin for?
When selecting a champion for a Legendary skin, there's a few factors that come into play. First, Legendaries take quite a bit more time to develop than Epic skins, so we tend to prioritize champions that are pretty broadly popular.
Next, we take a look at our big thematics of the year and start going through each one, identifying potential Legendary skin candidates based on a number of factors, including…

How recently a champion has received a skin: If a champion seems like a great fit but is getting another skin around that time, we’d probably pick somebody else.
How well they fit into the thematic: This one’s pretty obvious.
What their current catalog of skins looks like: We would want to avoid stacking a champion with nothing but sci-fi skins, for example. (Some overlap is okay, but we do try to diversify options.)
How much we could elevate the fantasy by taking a skin to the Legendary level: Does being able to change more animations, voiceover, and exploring other Legendary hooks let us tell a more exciting story for this champion?
One other less common way we might choose a champion for a Legendary skin is by concepting a broadly appealing champion in a prospective thematic we find really exciting for them. Then if it works well, we’ll build that thematic around them—Spirit Blossom Thresh and Ahri are an example of this. We really want Legendary skins to be the best expression of a fantasy for a character and skinline, so no matter how we choose them, we want to make sure that everyone is excited about it.
Riot DevinSage, Producer

Could we get an update on League Displays?
Over the years, the teams who originally launched League Displays have taken on different projects, and working actively on those projects has taken priority over maintaining League Displays. Unfortunately, that means League Displays hasn’t been kept up to date, and the bug backlog has crept up (including issues with downloading).
We'll be doing some investigation in the coming months to see if there's a more scalable way to maintain League Displays long term or provide alternative ways to enjoy League artwork.

Botley, Development Manager

Is there anything we as players can actively do to help with getting rid of toxicity in the game? Apart from not being part of the problem.
In a highly-competitive game, sometimes tempers run high or mental kabooms take place. We know this can be one of the worst experiences in League (or any game for that matter), and when it happens to you, it can make you feel helpless.

In addition to practicing your own rock solid mental game and continuing on in relentless pursuit of victory, you should use the report button in the post game lobby and Champion Select. We've done a fair amount of work to improve the qualitative and quantitative criteria for evaluating reports over the past year, which means they're more effective at identifying problematic behavior. This coupled with ongoing improvements to how we detect and address disruptive behavior outside of reports is moving systems in the right direction, though again, we expect combating toxicity to be something we all have to stay vigilant on for as long as competitive games exist.

If you end up leaving the post game lobby without remembering to report, we also accept reports on our support site.

In short, stay strong and report where you see disruptive behavior.
Can you add more bans to champ select please?
Bans are a valuable way for every player to have a choice and some control over stopping a particularly bad matchup or champion that they believe is too strong. Players sometimes (like right now!) ask if we could increase the numbers of bans in each game. When we look at the tradeoffs of going from 10 bans to say 20 (2 bans per person), it seems like we’d get more overall drawbacks than gains. Here’s how we’re thinking about it:

Plus sides to increasing bans:

More agency and control over frustrating or particularly bad matchups
Small strategy increases: Building a sharp team comp and considering the counters in ban choices adds some depth to the pregame
Downsides to increasing bans:

Increased complexity and duration of champion select: We already have a fairly long and complex pregame, and we would rather get players into the game quicker with less possibility for restarts.
Reduced ability to play who you want: One of the direct tradeoffs between banning difficult or frustrating matchups is that the champ you wanted to play may get banned. This can be especially devastating for newer players who only feel comfortable on a small number of champions or players who main champions or classes who tend to be banned out more (ex: assassins).
Disastrous edge cases: Many of our positions and champion classes could be completely banned out with more bans. We think overall it would be bad for the game if all marksmen, enchanters, assassins, or tanks were unable to be played.
Back when we increased the number of bans from 6 to 10, we felt there was clear positive net value. Complexity of Champ Select actually went down, and we moved up to a sweet spot of “every player gets 1 ban.” It didn’t put any classes at risk of being totally banned out while still increasing the overall level of player choice.

Returning to the question, increasing the number of bans in League today feels more heavily weighted towards the negatives. But like everything, we will continue to reevaluate and our opinion may change in the future.

Riot Scruffy, Game Design Director

What does a health pot taste like? Is it even ingested? Champs seem to drink them instantly whether in battle or on their way to lane.
From an in-world, Runeterran perspective, I suppose we actually know very little about what the League of Legends MOBA item might represent. I’m fairly sure there isn’t a factory somewhere churning out hundreds of identical potions and elixirs, and marketing them across the known world—and also, would a teenage human like Ekko respond in the same way to the same drink as an immortal god-warrior like Nasus, or a towering petricite statue like Galio?

It would probably make sense that it’s more of a catch-all term for “anything that a person might consume, in order to heal themselves,” whether that’s magical or mundane. And as you pointed out, can we be sure that they drink it? Maybe they just rub it on their wounds or something… although that might take even longer…

As you can probably tell, I’m trying to avoid saying that I don’t actually know! But whenever I’m getting my butt handed to me in a game of LoL (which is most of the time), I always imagine it tasting like a sweet fruit punch.

The alternative would be that it tastes like the most revolting medicine you can think of—but that’s no fun for anyone.

Riot Scathlocke, Narrative Editorial Director

Why isn't botlane variety more of an issue, e.g., why do marksmen and only marksmen go bot?
This is an interesting question where perception often has a tough time meeting reality. Some of the highest win rate champions in bot lane are not marksmen—like Swain, Karthus, and Heimderinger. Additionally, multiple mages’ highest win rates are in bot lane—like Veigar, Seraphine, and Ziggs. So the answer isn't just about systemic factors that influence who can go bot, but why it feels like only marksmen belong there.

That of course begs the question, why do players feel that way? To a large extent, it’s social pressure. Marksmen in bot lane have been the overall dominating meta for years, so it can feel very daunting to go off-meta in Champion Select. On top of that, the duo lane requires both players to have a good understanding of each others’ moment-to-moment goals, and playing with unfamiliar champions adds to the difficulty. Finally, the statement itself is a bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy—if people hear that only marksmen go bot, then they'll reinforce that social standard every time it’s challenged.

Changes in Pro play definitely reshape this opinion, as the recent advent of Seraphine bot as a viable competitive strategy has increased her pick rate bot lane in solo queue as well. “Fasting Senna” has also proven that there are unorthodox bot lane picks that can succeed. I’m sure we’ll see more meta-breakers in the future.
Why were some items removed in the new season? (i.e. Rod of Ages)
While we try to avoid removing items that players love, sometimes they violate certain principles which require them to be either removed or reworked. Items in the new season were typically reworked or removed if:

They violated game health principles for counterplay, like Hextech Gunblade as a point-and-click tool for assassins.
They had overlapping purposes with other items, like Statikk Shiv being very similar to Hurricane.
They were near-mandatory first purchases for certain champions in a way that couldn't be shifted to be more flexible, meaning they'd still end up restricting choice for those champions if turned into a Mythic item (Rod of Ages was a necessity for mana champions who needed health and wanted to scale; Hextech Gunblade’s sustain and hybrid AD/AP stats made it a requirement for many hybrid damage dealers).
Despite being very, very gold efficient, Rod of Ages was only used by a handful of champions due to its stat profile (Anivia, Twisted Fate, Ryze, Singed, etc.). Notably, it left out manaless champions like Mordekaiser, Rumble, Akali, and others who’d be interested in a hybrid damage/durability/healing option. It was also too powerful for the champs who wanted it to consider other options.

We actually tested several versions of Rod of Ages as a Mythic item, such as featuring a transformation mechanic and cool unique passive like Seraph's/Muramana. However, when balanced, users felt like they were irrelevant for too long while waiting for their Mythic item to scale, and it was a mandatory purchase for champions that wanted to scale (rather than a choice). This ultimately violated two of the principles for Mythic items that we were aiming for—satisfaction and choice.

The Rod of Ages Mythic iterations eventually became Riftmaker, which opened up the healing/durability niche for manaless champions. Mana users looking to prioritize survival should be able to situationally purchase Everfrost, although that item has been underpowered and is receiving buffs in the next patch or two.

PhRoXzOn, Game Designer, Summoners Rift Team

Are there any plans for making the ladder system more transparent? The ELO and the MMR make it a bit difficult to understand.
We’ve discussed this a few times, and the reasons we’ve stated still hold true today. MMR is basically the current estimation of your skill—and for it to be accurate, it will at times over or underestimate your abilities. If you’re only watching MMR, losses can feel like the game telling you you’re getting worse, when the truth is just that the system was intentionally testing you against tougher opponents and learning how to match you more accurately.

By adapting MMR into Rank, players progress through the system via Tier and Division milestones that put more focus on long-term growth than the result of any one game in isolation. One isolated loss won't knock you out of a rank, and one isolated win won't promote you into the next—your performance over time is ultimately what impacts your displayed Rank. This system also lets us include things like demotion protection, which keeps you from being overly punished for a streak of losses at an unfortunate time.

We’re going to keep working on ways to make both the Rank and MMR systems feel smooth and accurate, but we don’t want to make either system do a job it wasn’t designed to do.

Riot IAmWalrus, Lead Competitive Gameplay Designer

What is your goal for individual roles at various points in a match? Should roles have similar strength at all points of the match or should some be stronger? Would love to hear thoughts on what seems like the developers trying to let ADCs have a strength curve more aligned with other roles.
The goal is for each role to feel like it can meaningfully change the outcome of a match. Due to the shape of the map (dragons spawn earlier and are bot, Baron spawns later and is top, mid lane can roam to other lanes, etc.), exact parity at all points in the game isn’t something we strive for. In fact, we think unique power curves are a good thing. Slight advantages and disadvantages in power at different times make for a wider range of decisions and strategic elements to consider. 

Likewise, different roles do and should index differently as to what kind of strengths they are bringing to a match. A support undoubtedly has less 1v1 combat power than a midlaner, but they often set the vision up for a battlefield and the utility in their kits becomes critically important as the game goes on. Put another way, they have less direct combat power so they get to index higher in strategic capabilities. 

In addition to having some variance in power between roles, we find power-over-time is a healthy way to diversify the feeling of our champion classes. For instance, Marksmen have some pretty clear distinctions between early game bullies (Draven, Caitlyn) and late game hyperscaling champions (Vayne, Kog’maw). This helps players pick a style they enjoy or one that fits the team they’re trying to create. 

  For the Marksman item changes in preseason, we thought their late-game-skewed power curve was slightly too sharp. This led to situations where games ended before they could reach and make use of their power spike. So we changed Marksman items to allow them to spike earlier, which was more to match the reality of the games than to sync them with other roles. That directionally has seemed like an improvement, but we still intend to keep their power curve skewed toward late game overall.
Why are all of the skins you make now in a line (like Battle Queens) instead of unique ones for each champ?
There are a number of reasons why we've had more releases that are a collection of skins within a single thematic. One is that we're investing more into the world building and visual development of our thematics. Spirit Blossom is a great example of this, where we develop the thematic for some time, invest a lot of effort to build a creative foundation, then want to build more than just a couple skins in order to make sure we explore the thematic sufficiently for its initial release. Doing bigger "drops," or more skins per thematic release, also gives us more opportunities to bring lower playrate champions into major or new thematics—Spirit Blossom Kindred is a great example here.

This doesn't preclude us from making one-off skins. Sometimes there will be champs that just don't cleanly fit in the thematics we're developing, and we'll be keeping an eye out for single skin opportunities that we think players will really dig.

Riot Eggo McLego, Product Lead, Skins and Personalization Content

What happened to the VGU you announced that was going to come after Mundo?
We ran into some unexpected delays and never really got started on the VGU we announced in September’s Champion Roadmap. As such, we decided to make good on our original promise, which was to let you all decide which champion we should update next.

The poll results are nearly in, and we’re excited to announce the winning champion—who’ll receive the next VGU after Dr. Mundo—next week. The winner of the thematic vote will also be revealed then.

Reav3, Lead Producer of Champions Team

What is one experience with creating or reworking a champion that led to a drastic change in how all champions were handled?
I don't know about a specific champion that led to a drastic change in how we handle ALL champs, but there was a VGU that changed how we handled all VGUs, and that was Aatrox.

Prior to Aatrox, new champions and VGUs had the same primary goal, which was to drive engagement. In other words, both VGUs and new champions were designed to get lots of players to play them, that way League consistently has fresh new gameplay, whether you're playing with, as, or against the champion. This doesn’t mean every champion has to be super popular—we sometimes create champs who we know will be niche but who we hope will have a dedicated player base.

New champions and VGUs had very different secondary goals though. For new champions, our secondary goal was (and still is) to expand League’s IP. For VGUs, our secondary goal was to build player trust in our dev team and keep League feeling up to date and modern.

Because our primary goal for VGUs was getting people to play the champions, we’d sometimes make choices that we felt would make the champs more engaging and exciting to the broader playerbase, even if it sometimes meant we had to make drastic changes to the champion’s play pattern or style. It’s easy to see fault in this approach now, but those were the goals that we thought made sense at the time. In any case, this is how we approached Aatrox’s update.

As such, we ended up with a champion with a much higher playrate amongst a dedicated playerbase, and if we were judging success solely based on our primary goal, then Aatrox was a success. However, the new engagement came at the cost of alienating a lot of old Aatrox players. It also made many players afraid for their favorite champions to get a VGU, in fear that we’d change them so far from what they love, they wouldn’t love them anymore.

After Aatrox’s update, we swapped the primary and secondary goals for VGUs. Player trust became (and remains) our primary goal—even if that means the champ ends up being a little less engaging or exciting for the broader playerbase.

In some ways, when we update a champion, we’re really updating something that’s no longer ours. It’s a character that sometimes millions of players have grown to love globally, and we want to make sure we do good by you all first and foremost.

This is part of the reason we’ve begun doing VGU polls. It’s also why we release multiple dev blogs throughout development so we can get earlier feedback from more players on the direction we’re headed, and make adjustments based on that feedback. We hope this new approach is something that can be felt in our most recent updates, and we hope that we can continue building trust between you all and the Champions Team.
Why did it take so long to get Star Shards for Little Legends?
We’re constantly listening to player feedback and prioritizing what we want to bring to the table. When Little Legends were first released with TFT, we learned that you wanted more agency in buying both the species and variant of your Little Legend. That got us to the Little Legends Rotating Store. After learning that we still needed to do more to meet your expectations, we came up with “Little Legends Upgrade Token” (which eventually became Star Shards).

Now the question was, when could we start on it?

While we were brewing the idea of Star Shards, the team was shipping TFT Mobile (including the Tutorial and Store), the Galaxies set, the Galaxies mid-set update… not to mention a new galaxy each patch! Around June this year, we were finally able to kick off the project.

How many ways can players get Star Shards? What will it look and sound like? How do we make it work with RP? These are just some of the many questions that our teams had to answer, and with those results transform it into a working feature.

One of the goals for developing the Star Shards system was that it was independent, a new currency on its own, and not limited by the existing ones on League. This allows us to be more flexible, and we’ve also added automation on the way. We worked closely with our PIE (aka Skins and Events Team) Merchant Guild and Content Access Hub team to make sure the pieces came together smoothly.

We did multiple demos and playtests to collect feedback and also ensure that things were running as intended. For example, we needed to make sure that the Star Shard system was hooked up properly to players’ inventories and that spending the currency properly upgraded your Little Legend.

All of this took three months to develop, test, and ship.

The team is still continuing to polish Star Shards (alongside the game!). We have a lot to do and we need talented people to do it, so If you are interested in joining our team to make the game even more awesome, check out Riot Careers.

Riot FireNRain, TFT Producer

What were the most popular Traits in Galaxies? Champions? Items?
Did someone ask for data? Here are a few fun stats...

Before the mid-set update, the most popular individual traits were 2-Chrono and Mercenary. After Mercenary’s timely demise, 2-Chrono and 2-Vanguard became the most popular individual traits. If you want even more fun data, the most popular 6-piece trait was 6-Blademaster throughout Galaxies. The most winning (and potentially overrated) individual trait was 9-Dark Star before the mid-set update and 9-Star Guardian after.

Let’s break it down even more. Don’t keep scrolling, you asked for data, you’re getting data.

The most popular champions by gold cost in the first half of Galaxies were:

1 gold: Malphite (the rock solid choice)
2 gold: Blitzcrank with Shen at a close second (grabgrabgrabgrabgrab)
3 gold: Ashe followed by Vi and Ezreal in 2nd and 3rd (but Kassadin was the most likely to get you LP)
4 gold: Wukong (Kayle was a close 2nd and more likely to get you LP)
5 gold: Miss Fortune (There’s no competition for second. It wasn’t even close.)
And after the mid-set update they were:

1 gold: Jarvan IV (hail to the king)
2 gold: Rakan (he must be lonely without Xayah)
3 gold: Ashe (Jayce was more popular for early game, but fell off later)
4 gold: Wukong (but Jhin was more likely to get you some LP… insert low effort number 4 joke here)
5 gold: Gangplank and Thresh (The dynamic duo... or something. I dunno.)
Did you think I was done? Lol nice try.

The most popular items across the whole set were Infinity Edge and Guardian Angel. Guinsoo’s Rageblade was 3rd in the first half when Kayle was a dominant presence, but was overtaken by Seraph’s Embrace after the mid-set update.

The most popular items weren’t the most likely to get you some LP though. If you wanted those fat LP gainz you needed (depending on the patch): Red Buff, Morellonomicon, Ionic Spark, and Statikk Shiv (as well as Demolitionist’s Charge, Battlecast Armor, and of course, Force of Nature if you could find the Spatulas for them).

Ok, you can keep scrolling now.

Riot Benobo, Insights Analyst

Who was the most tricky champion to transfer from Summoner's Rift into the TFT World of Fates?
One of the trickier champions for us to port over from Summoner’s Rift to TFT: Fates was Azir. He posed a series of design and technical problems:

Designing Shurima’s Walls

It was difficult for us to settle on a spell for him that would sell his SR fantasy but not contribute too much visual noise to late-game combat. Since we already used spawning soldiers as a 3-cost spell in Rise of the Elements, we knew we had to go bigger and better for him as a 5-cost, and there was no spell more iconic to him than his Shuriman soldier wall.

One of the initial iterations of the spell had the wall knockback all enemies it passed through, then remain there as impassable terrain while his Emperor soldiers positioned themselves behind the wall to hit the enemies trying to pass through. Although we liked the anti-assassin properties of this iteration, it made a lot of late-game combats hard to follow—he was shuffling the enemy team, his team (who was chasing the knockbacked enemies), and his soldiers. We eventually moved to a version where his wall would only push back enemies near him and his soldiers wouldn’t move with it, significantly reducing the number of units that were displaced every time he casted.

Making Guards for the Emperor

His Emperor trait required us to change some of our core systems to accommodate the soldier properties. Much like Bard Meeps in Galaxies, we needed to add functionality to our drag-and-drop system to let players place Sand Guards only on the board. Additionally, we had to ensure the Sand Guards leveled up with Azir, didn’t contribute to the unit count, and didn’t show up in damage recap charts.

Additionally, because when Azir dies his soldiers die too, clone army Azirs needed the ability to find their respective ghost soldiers to tell them when to die. This meant we couldn’t just do a surface level copy of Azir and his soldiers to make the clones—we had to give them something more. So we gave clone units information about the original unit they were copied off of, and then recreated the connection that the original Azir has to his soldiers with clone Azir and the clone soldiers.

Honorable Mentions

Aphelios: Spawning turrets such that they don’t interfere with unit pathing is always hard; we also had to do work to make sure that they inherited Aphelios’ item and trait buffs.

Sett: Has a ton of movement logic to make sure that him and the units around him move and path appropriately for The Boss trait and his suplex.

Lee Sin: We had to give units the ability to move outside the bounding box of islands so he could kick them off.

(If he didn’t make an appearance as an Epic encounter in Galaxies, Kayn would probably also be on this list due to his different forms.)

Shynkro, TFT Technical Designer

Who is your favorite Little Legend and why is it Choncc?
Riot Green Teej: A Choncc got that something that I need.

Riot FireNRain: I like my Sugarcone Furyhorn and Original Fuwa. Sorry ʕ´•ᴥ•`ʔ

Riot Benobo: Boom boom clap boom boom clap boom clap boom boom boom boom clap

Shynkro: Boom boom clap boom boom clap boom clap boom boom boom boom clap
I had a petal left when Spirit Blossom ended, and now it won’t let me give it to a champ. Is there a way I can still get the rewards?
Don’t worry! We’re not going to pull a Teemo and try to trick you out of a hard-earned spirit petal. If you’ve earned a petal but were unable to give it to your chosen spirit, you can submit a ticket to Player Support, so we can help you cross over long enough to grab your emote.

Whatacoolwitch, Player Support Writer

Why were the Spirit Blossom petals so hard to get? I wanted to give them to more champs :’(
It has been a challenge to get Vayne and Riven the petals they deserve from me, so I definitely understand where this question comes from. We’ve absolutely heard the frustrations about getting a hold of the petals, as well as the frustrations about there only being 5 while there are 10 very amazing characters you may want to grow close to. In short, we agree that petals ended up feeling a bit too hard to chase down, but I’d still like to take a moment to explain the intention behind them.

Spirit petals were hard to get because they were supposed to represent something exclusive, rare, and challenging. They were the way for you to earn the most intimate connection with champions: the special scenes you get in the epilogue. Making such a connection with all of the champions would make those scenes feel lesser. In addition to the narrative reward, it also makes the lasting rewards for such an exclusive and difficult choice more meaningful—when someone flashes their Teemo emote, you know they were really best pals. All 5 petals were never meant to be fully collected, except by the most ardent and zealous players.

While this explains why we wanted petals to be exclusive and challenging to earn, it doesn’t cover the pacing of earning them. We want decisions like this to have impact and meaning, but we don’t always want it to feel like such a slogging chore and want to do better in the future in that regard.

Riot Gearhook, Game Designer

Which champions got the most and least petals for Spirit Blossom?
The champions that got the most petals were Yasuo, Teemo, and Ahri. This correlates pretty strongly with playrate, as the champions with the most “mains” seemed to generally be the ones that got the most petals. (I mean who wouldn’t give a petal to their main?)

Also, in case you missed it, there’s an epilogue for any champion you gave a petal to. If you want to say goodbye to your true love super duper best pal spirit realm companions, head back to the Spirit Bonds tab in the client before the weekend ends—it’ll be taken down sometime on Monday, 9/7.
Welcome to Ask Riot!
This week, we’re talking about why some VGUs have more drastic kit changes than others, which champions get the most (and least) honors, and whether snow will ever return to the Rift.



Are you going to bring back Winter Summoner's Rift or other changes in Rift appearance?
The map updates we’ve made for events like Snowdown and Arcade have always been fun for players (and honestly, for us as well). The downside is that they don’t last very long and often lack depth. Instead of doing a handful of these smaller map reskins every year, we’ve instead been focusing our efforts on creating more immersive environments that players get to experience for a longer period of time.

The most recent example of this approach is the relocation of Nexus Blitz—which will now be returning more often as part of events—to a beautiful (and mysterious) Ionian forest. Another example is the Elemental Rift update from last preseason.

So… Will we ever bring back snow back to the Rift? The answer is maybe, but we don’t have any plans to at the moment. That said, we’re constantly improving the tools we use to make environment art (did you know that the first TFT Arenas were made from pieces of SR, but at the time we didn’t have a way to repurpose the map parts, so we had to figure out how to chop ‘em up and reuse them first?). Improvements like this will help us make more immersive maps more quickly than before. Perhaps one day we can create temporary maps to support events, but in the meantime, we hope you enjoy The Temple of the Lily and the Lotus.

PS. Before y’all ask, “Why can’t you reuse the Winter map you already made?,” we’d like to remind you that the Rift LITERALLY CATCHES ON FIRE. (And grows flowers. And rocks. And… wind?) But in all seriousness, we’d need to make snowy versions of all four Elemental Rifts as well as snowy alcove areas. It’s not a technical challenge but would take some time to make the art for, and it’s not something we’re planning on this year.

- Karadwe, Product Lead


Why was Mordekaiser’s kit changed so much in comparison to Nunu’s and Fiddlestick's rework?
Fair question! Since I was the designer on Nunu's rework as well as Mordekaiser's (with EndlessPillows), I'll explain how that process worked and how we arrived at the final ability kits that we did.

When we do updates to champions, there are varying levels of what needs to be overhauled versus what needs to just be modernized or "touched-up." They vary from small updates like Ezreal’s in 2018 to massive overhauls like Mordekaiser's. It all depends on why we're doing the update in the first place and how much of their kit is iconic or essential to their strategic identity (more on this below).

Just prior to their updates, Nunu and Mordekaiser were both at (or very near) the bottom of the roster in terms of play rate, which is what made them good candidates for VGUs. Having that low of a playrate is a good indicator that their kits are not resonant with modern players. Granted, we are completely open to having niche champions, but there's a big difference between "niche" and "most people really don't like this." In particular, even niche champions will be higher on the depth of play scale, which measures how many games the typical main plays that champion. Nunu and Morde were very low on depth as well, not just overall playrate (breadth). 

Our process for updating champion kit’s is pretty consistent, and when simplified, it looks like this:
Look for any iconic abilities that should be maintained and brought forward into the new kit.
Ensure that the strategic identity of the champion is maintained.
With what room is left, create the gameplay experience that you would expect as a player when you see their character art or read their lore.
So for Nunu, that went like this:

Absolute Zero is probably one of the best textbook cases of what an iconic ability is. It's been around since the beginning, and most players know what it does and even what its name is. To remove that in his update would be overly frustrating to players, even the majority that weren't playing him actively at the time.
Nunu's strategic identity was objective control. How/why was he so good at that? Because of Consume. And so, since we didn't want to change his strategic identity, we brought Consume forward as well. (In both cases, we updated the abilities, but they were very similar to their original versions.)
I wanted to make the act of moving around the map (especially the jungle) more fun, and we also wanted to tell the story of this playful friendship between a boy and a "monster," so the idea of rolling the snowball was born.
In its simplified form, that looks very straightforward, but we did many iterations on his abilities and passive to end up where we did. In some ways, trying to keep 2 of his 4 abilities makes things more difficult because it doesn't leave a lot of room for creativity.

Mordekaiser, on the other hand, didn't have any abilities that were as iconic. An argument could be made for controlling ghosts with his R, but that was a particular portion of the kit that most players didn't care for. We spent months trying to make that feel better and make it work, for what it's worth, but decided in the end we weren't going to meet our goals of making the champion more fun to play for more people if we forced pet control into the new kit. (We talk more about this in the behind-the-scenes video on Morde’s development.) Removing the ghosts also meant we had more power budget to put into the things we thought would be fun and feel good, which is why his Q hits so hard.

Second, Mordekaiser didn't have as clear of a strategic identity as champions like Mordekaiser and Fiddlesticks did. We still wanted Morde to be an AP juggernaut that uses offense to power his defense, but at the strategic level, he didn't have a very clear purpose or strength. That meant we had an opportunity to come up with a new one, which is what sparked the idea of taking champions to the Death Realm to isolate them from their allies in a true 1v1.

So with his whole kit largely open, we got to ask ourselves: When you see Mordekaiser's picture, or when you read about Mordekaiser's lore, what is the character you expect to get to play? And the answer was pretty clear: a heavily armored, huge mace-wielding badass that is lord of the death realm and wielder of its magic. His new abilities were born from wanting to actualize that fantasy—smash things with his mace, feel nearly indestructible at times, use magic to do things at ranges that aren't typical for a juggernaut, and ultimately take enemies to the place where you are strongest and destroy them.

I know that's a long answer, but hopefully that gives you a better idea of the journey we go on when we explore updating champions. Each VGU has different goals, and some of those require a lot of change and others require less. If you want to dive into more specifics, you can check out these posts about Urgot, Evelynn, Fiddlesticks, and Volibear, and this video about Pantheon.
- Riot Xenogenic, Lead Game Designer


Which champions have gotten the most and least honors this season?
The award for the “most honorable champion” in League goes to Yuumi (0.8 honors received per game, more than 20% higher than the average!). She’s followed pretty closely by Soraka, Lulu, and Nami.

In fact, supportive champions tend to receive the most honors in general, with 13 out of the top 15 most-honored champions in League being champion primarily played in the Support role. The only two exceptions are Ivern (ranked 5th), and Kalista (ranked 14th). I found Kalista particularly interesting, since she’s an ADC that has more “direct” synergies with her support (due to her Oathsworn Bond), which may explain why she’s so high up in honors.

On the flip side… the champion with the fewest honors received per game goes to Jayce (ranked 148th), followed very closely by Teemo and Quinn.

Some more interesting data in case you’re interested:

The highest-honored champion that is primarily played as a mid laner is Galio (at rank 30), followed by Orianna (rank 42).
The highest-honored champion that is primarily played as a top laner is Shen (rank 53), followed by Sion (rank 55).
The most-to-least honored roles seem to be Support -> ADC -> Jungle -> Mid -> Top. (This probably says more about the pattern of which roles tend to honor what other roles, like Supports and ADCs more frequently honoring each other, than the nature of the champions themselves).
There’s some regional variance in who gets honored. Some examples include Lee Sin dropping from the 32nd to 96th most honored champion in North American servers, or Yasuo jumping 63 ranks when looking only at European servers (ranked 45th, compared to the global average of 108).
Thanks for the question—it’s always a pleasure answering data questions that players have about the game!
Can you add an option to auto allocate players into Clash teams? Or add a way to find them? Not everyone can find teams on their own.
We’ve definitely recognized that one of the biggest things keeping people from playing Clash is not having enough people to play with. But we don’t want to just start throwing random folks together into Clash teams, because then the experience starts feeling a lot like “Solo Queue, But With Trophies.” So we’re looking into solutions that can help you find like-minded Clash players so you can make a Clash team that still feels like a team.

We’ll be talking more about the upcoming new Build a Team feature later this year, which will be focused on helping you find teammates among your friends, friends of friends, and folks you won with in regular games of League. But if that isn’t enough, I’d also recommend checking out the Clash LFG Megathread on Reddit, r/TeamRedditTeams, or one of the other team finding websites that have started to crop up since Clash launched. There’s a lot of other folks out there who are looking for teammates too!

RiotIAmWalrus, Game Designer, Competitive

Why can't we have toggles for all of the skins with different forms?
We know that toggles are a frequently-requested feature for skins, especially Legendaries. Just like any other skin feature though, it takes time to build and test, so we prioritize against other value we could be adding. Sometimes a toggle fits the narrative and we believe it’s worth it, but many other times we’ll choose a different route.

Recently for Spirit Blossom Thresh, we really thought being able to freely swap between demon and human forms enhanced the power fantasy of our favorite soul-sucking heartthrob. For other skins, it might not fit the story to have champions switching back and forth between forms. We’ll always do our best to create skins that do as much justice as possible to the champion and thematic, but I hope this helps clear up why we don’t always offer a toggle!

Riot Eggo McLego, Skins Producer

Why do aspects need hosts? And what do they look like in their pure form? Like floaty balls of light?
“Why couldn’t the Aspect go to the Runeterra party? Because he had no-body to go with! Hur hur hur.”

In short, that’s the answer. Aspects, as entities of the celestial realm, do not have physical forms, and so require mortal hosts if they want to come down to our world and make things happen. Though they are undeniably powerful in their own way, they don’t seem able to actually create very much—in fact, Aurelion Sol’s lore refers to them as “dispassionate and incurious things, contributing little to existence.” Sick burn.

As to their pure form… disappointingly, no one from Runeterra really knows. There have been countless legends about the Aspects among the people of Targon, over the centuries, but they can never seem to agree on the details. Some might believe they are literally the stars and constellations in the sky, which would likely make A-Sol pretty mad. Some might envisage them as god-like avatars striding across the heavens, which would probably cause Nagakabouros to laugh out loud. And some might dare to whisper that they are beings from another world altogether, which would almost certainly confuse the heck out of all the yordles, who are still trying to figure this one out.

All we know for certain is that the Aspects are unusually focused on Runeterra, and have been for millennia. But they and their motivations aren’t “human,” so they’re unlikely to come down and grace us with a full explanation any time soon.
What are your thoughts on Yuumi?
There are so many ways to answer this, so let’s break it down into a couple of more specific questions based on what we’ve seen players talk about:

Why is Yuumi a braindead champion that even a real cat could play?
Why should she even exist?
Do we think Yuumi is balanced?
Why did we nerf her healing mana costs so hard this patch?
Why is Yuumi a braindead champion that even a real cat could play?
So actually… We think this is a misconception, and the most clear way to show you why we believe so is to share her champion mastery curve in comparison to other champs.

A champion’s mastery curve is a way of looking at how much more effective a player becomes on a champion as they play them more, as represented by how much their win rate increases over games played. Here’s what Yuumi’s look like, along with a couple other champions:

02_Ask_Riot_Mastery_Curves.jpg
Yuumi’s mastery curve is more in line with champions like Akali and Qiyana, who continue to see win rate growth well beyond the first ~20 games, than it is to champions like Neeko and Mordekaiser.

Many “easier to learn” champions are picked up more quickly because they test a lot of the same things other champions tested already. For example, every new ADC in some way tests your ability to last-hit with a ranged auto attack and stand in the right place to deal maximum damage.

Yuumi tests things that no other champion in League does. This is both why she continues to see win rate growth for so many games, and also why we believe some players don’t see her as being “hard to play.” The things many players have associated with playing League well aren’t being tested on her—like positioning and moment-to-moment dodging—but new things are.

If you’d like to get into the nitty-gritty details of some of those tests, here are a few of them:

Identifying when it’s safe to hop out and use her passive in chaotic teamfights, which means tracking enemies’ cooldowns to know when to do so. Failure to use Yuumi’s passive at all means leaving a lot of value on the table in the form of shields and mana. Using her passive at the wrong time means getting CC’d and killed.
Identifying who you should attach to because you can’t support more than one person at a time. Your heal has no range, and your exact positioning is beyond your control, so you need to be able to predict how your allies and the enemies will move. Otherwise, you might end up in a really bad place or forced to help the wrong ally.
Weaving Q around targets that aren’t who you’re trying to hit, which is a more simple but still unique skill test.
Managing vision control while being the slowest and squishiest champion in the game, which is a particularly challenging version of a skill test all supports have.
All of this combines to make Yuumi a difficult champion to master, albeit in ways that look different from the rest of the champion roster. (You might compare this to someone like Singed, whose proxy playstyle is totally different from any other champion and takes ~100 games to master.)

Why should Yuumi even exist?
To be direct, we believe Yuumi fills a unique role in the champion roster—both in playstyle and thematic—and there is clear data showing that a lot of people enjoy playing Yuumi.

When we look at champion popularity, we break it down into depth and breadth. Depth is a measure of the average number of games a player puts into a champion. Breadth is a measure of how many different players play a champion. Breadth and depth can be used as two axes of a graph to give us a more complete understanding of how popular a champion is.

Here’s the graph showing Yuumi’s popularity since her launch. The thinnest part of the line indicates when she was released, and the thickest is from patch 10.12.

03_Ask_Riot_Final_Yuumi_Popularity.jpg
Note: This is a log graph that shows champion popularity relative to each other. If this were a linear scale, Yasuo would actually be outrageously far off the page. Head over to this article for more details on how we use graphs like this.

If you look at Yuumi’s depth of play, you can see there’s consistently a large group of players who engage deeply, even when she’s objectively quite weak. When she has a reasonable win rate for most players, Yuumi is also one of our most broadly played supports. One of the goals of the Champions team is to fill out our roster in a way that gives everyone the perfect champion for them, and Yuumi’s depth and breadth of play indicates we’re delivering on this.

We believe Yuumi players are generally more interested in the cooperative elements of League—the teamplay, coordination, and relationships you form with your allies. We’re pretty confident Yuumi delivers on that in a unique way with a resonant theme.

Do we think Yuumi is balanced?
Excluding the most recent set of changes (we’ll talk about that next), I think it’s safe to say that no, we don’t think Yuumi has been in a state that’s balanced or that she’s been in a good place in regards to game health.

The biggest game health issue we’ve consistently faced with Yuumi is ensuring she has sufficient counterplay, which is probably why 1) she’s so frustrating to play against, and 2) she’s perceived as being “easy mode” or not deserving of her wins.

We agree that Yuumi hasn’t been fair to play against. But this doesn't mean Yuumi shouldn't exist—it just means we have to get more creative to ensure she does have adequate avenues for counterplay. In practice, this means making sure that Yuumi has to exit the safety of an ally and interact with opponents regularly.

Why did we nerf her healing mana costs so hard this patch?
These changes are intended to force Yuumi to utilize her passive in order to be effective, which means she has to regularly detach from her ally and interact with opponents.

When we last made large changes to Yuumi in patch 9.24, we tried making it easier and more rewarding for opponents to capitalize on her squishiness when she detached from an ally by adding a cast time to her W and putting it on cooldown if it was interrupted by CC. However, she’s been able to take items and runes that have kept her mana topped off without her needing to consistently use her passive, which obviously made the changes less effective than we wanted. The result was a Yuumi who could (basically) healbot an ally with no gating.

In order for Yuumi to be a healthy champion in League, she has to give opponents opportunities to interact with her. Changing her heal cost to be a percent of max mana will give us a tuning lever that bypasses items and runes and allows us to force her to utilize her passive regularly—which is always what we intended, but she’s thus far found ways to avoid. We hope that by forcing Yuumi to open that counterplay window throughout the game in order to be effective, it’ll make her more fair (and less frustrating) to play against.

So if we take all of this into consideration and answer the question:

What do you think of Yuumi?
Our answer is that we believe Yuumi is a successful champion because she offers a unique and resonant playstyle, but we need to ensure she has sufficient counterplay moments in order to say she’s a healthy addition to League.

The Summoner’s Rift Team

What’s the next featured game mode going to be?
Up next is Nexus Blitz as part of the summer event. It’s on PBE for testing now and includes some new in-game events and rewards, plus a complete map reskin—Nexus Blitz is now set in an Ionian forest.

The next featured game mode will be One-For-All during the following event.

More broadly, we’ve been seeing a lot of questions about game modes in general, so we plan on talking more in-depth about our plans and approach in a blog later this year.
Will there be a custom game feature for tft with the ability to choose which galaxy to play? (I would like to play with my friends but it is a waste of time when we need to surrender when it is without a galaxy we would like to try)
The honest answer here is probably not any time soon.

There’s a lot of work that goes into things like this. Enabling custom games of TFT, adding a new selector for the galaxy and other options, and ensuring this all comes together does take time. We also would need to ensure this work would function no matter what the set mechanic is. Once Galaxies goes away, there will be a different set mechanic, so it would need to work with future sets as well.

As with any decision, there are trade-offs. The team is currently focused on other things: creating new sets, improving the pass experience, and more. However, itis the kind of thing we’d love to do someday. We will see what the future holds!

Riot Mort, Lead Game Designer TFT

I would love to see the lore and the game mix more often. Why don't you do more lore-based events?
The short answer is: we are! 

At the highest level, we believe League events should include (put simply): things to do, things to learn or discover like lore, things to earn, and things to purchase. Admittedly, in the past, we weren’t hitting the mark on all of these goals, which is something we acknowledged in 2019 and have been aiming to do better in 2020 and beyond.

The Galaxies event earlier this year featured new lore from the Dark Star universe, including a fork in Lux’s path: would she continue to follow her duty to the Cosmic Court, or would she give in to her ambitions and embrace the power of the Dark Star?

We decided we didn’t want to answer that question for players and instead, let them choose by participating in the event (spoiler: players ‘voted’ for her to go to the Dark Star). That player choice is now the official lore as featured on our Universe site.

Going forward, we’re excited about giving players opportunities to learn more about these alternate universes or the core Runeterra lore, as well as having more opportunities to drive it forward through “voting” contests like Galaxies.

Not every event will include such a choice, but even if they don’t, we’re committed to using events as a time to signal that new lore will become available. For example, in the current event (Pulsefire), we are releasing 5 stories across the event to dive more into the story of the Pulsefire universe and its characters.

I won’t spoil anything now, but keep an eye out for the next event. The next event will be experimenting with different things for you to interact with individually as a player. It's one of our biggest events in the year and I can't wait for you to see it. As always, when that’s out, let us know what you think!

Riot Xenogenic, Lead Game Designer for Personalization & Events

How do you choose which skins get new chromas?
For events where we’re working with an established thematic that already has a back catalog, chroma selection usually involves evaluating skin popularity and whether or not that skin already has significant chroma options. For events exploring new thematics, the process is much simpler: all the new skins get chromas!
Why don’t events have new modes like Odyssey or Star Guardian did?
Our goal for alternative game modes has changed a lot since Star Guardian: Invasion and Odyssey: Extraction. Modes like this put a really unique twist on League’s core gameplay, but they didn’t hold your attention for long. In other words, players were excited to try the modes but would quickly return to Summoner’s Rift after the novelty wore off.

Game_Hours_Per_Mode.jpg
Creating a new game mode that significantly deviates from League’s core gameplay—such as the PvE nature of Odyssey or alt-win-con of Dark Star: Singularity—takes a while to get right. And ultimately, we want to make sure that the amount of time we spend in development is worth the amount of time y’all get enjoying it.

That said, we’ve heard the feedback around events lately, specifically that it feels like their quality has dropped over time. Beyond offering an alternative game mode with every event—which has included One-for-All and ARURF so far, with Nexus Blitz returning this summer—we’re still working on other improvements to things like the Event Pass system and mission variety. We hope to slowly make positive changes throughout the course of 2020.

HBBONG, Modes Product Lead

Are you gonna let us buy prestige skins from events at the end of the year? Will we get the schedule for the rest of 2020?
Yes, all of the Prestige skins you could earn with event tokens this year will be available for Prestige Points at the end of 2020. The accompanying icon and border is only available when you unlock the skin during the event.

We’ll be announcing the next batch of champions receiving a Prestige skin sometime after Zoe’s skin hits PBE in June.

KenAdamsNSA, Product Manager

So earlier this year you teased announcer packs. Any updates on when they’re gonna come?
When we teased announcer packs earlier this year, we had hoped to release the first ones this fall, but we’ve decided to put them on hold for now. We’re facing unexpected production constraints due to COVID-19, and avoiding health risks is a top priority—we don’t want to endanger the safety of external partners like VO actors.

This is impacting more than just announcer packs: Legendary skins and champions are also facing new production challenges. There’s no one-size-fits-all solution, as the needs vary by region, type of voiceover, and many other factors. That said, we’ve been able to find solutions for upcoming Legendary skins and champions thus far, and we’ll be sure to update you if anything changes.
Why do some champions like lux and kai'sa get so many skins while others like ornn and bard get so few or even none?
We often prioritize skins for our most popular champions, like Lux and Kai’Sa, because they reach a huge number of players. Not only does this mean we can delight a lot of people at once, but it also directly funds our ability to make skins for champs with small-but-dedicated playerbases. The often unspoken real talk is that… yes, we are a business, and we want to continue supporting League with new features and content through the years to come. Creating skins for popular champions allows us to do so, in addition to helping to fund things beyond the game, like the upcoming animated series Arcane.

Reasons aside, we agree that it sucks to have to wait years for a skin for your favorite champion, so at the start of this year we promised that we’d be stepping up the number of skins we ship in 2020.

With those extra skins, we’re going to hit a lot of the champions who haven’t seen skins for a while. So far, we’ve announced skins this year for: Skarner, Xerath, Mordekaiser, Kindred, Rek’Sai, Vel’Koz, Karthus, Sion, Twitch, Taric, Pantheon, Nautilus, Trundle, Bard, Ornn, and Taliyah. That list isn’t exhaustive, though, so don’t take the absence of your main's name to mean you definitely won't get a skin. Olaf, Zyra, and Renekton weren’t on the list, and we hope to surprise you with more as time passes.


On a whole, our hope is to increase the number of skins we make over time, so that champion mains can count the time since they last got a skin in months instead of years.

And as to Ornn and Bard specifically… we’ve recently previewed skins for both of them that will be released later this year! Here are the concepts, in case you missed ‘em. (And if you’d like to see a preview of Pool Party Taliyah, head over to our most recent Riot Pls.)

Elderwood_Ornn.jpg Astronaut_Bard.jpg
- Bellissimoh, Product Lead, Personalization
I have been playing LoL for more than four years and it gives me a lot of fun. But since last season, my MMR is ass… I win at 17 LP and lose at -20LP. How can I change this.
The short answer: Keep winning.

The goal of the ranking system isn’t to just move people upwards consistently—it’s to try and get you to a rank that accurately represents your skill. That means that the climb gets harder as you get to higher ranks, both because those ranks are tougher and because your rank is getting closer and closer to your actual skill level. When the amount you gain on a win is about the same as the amount you gain on a loss, that means you’re pretty much at the rank the system expects for you.

That doesn’t mean you’ve hit your peak and can’t climb any more, but it does mean that to keep climbing, you have to perform better than we’d expect. The more you win, the more our estimation of your skill will rise, and the more your rank will increase.

- RiotIAmWalrus, Game Designer, Competitive
I love the galaxies feature. But, why not have a galaxy for every round of TFT? It seems like I'm playing more normal games than galaxy games.
There are several reasons.

Many galaxies are cool because of novelty more than depth. Lilac Nebula stands out the first time you play it, but it might not hold up the 20th time as you’ve more or less figured out how to approach that first carousel and build a comp around it. When there were few galaxies in the pool, we had to keep the odds of rolling a normal game higher in order to limit repetition.

Additionally, we want to keep touch with the base game—many galaxies distort the game in quite dramatic ways, but if you play them repeatedly, they can become the default expectation for what a game of TFT feels like. This results in the galaxies feeling less special and could risk making the normal game feel less interesting.

That said, we’ve been ramping up the odds of rolling a galaxy over time as we add more of them. It’s now at 65% for patch 10.9 (up from 47.5%), and will continue to increase over the next couple patches. We intend normal games to remain the single most common variant and something you continue to experience reasonably often, but with the expanded pool of galaxies, we don’t need them to make up most of your games anymore.
When will you add more galaxies to TFT? How’s this set going so far?
We're adding new galaxies to TFT with every patch! This week we added the Trade Sector and Superdense galaxies. Trade Sector gives all players one free reroll every round, and Superdense galaxy gives all players a free Force of Nature when they hit level 5.

In the next patch, we're adding the Treasure Trove galaxy where every NPC is guaranteed to drop a loot orb. The chance of getting the Treasure Trove galaxy will be much less than the others. We're also experimenting with a galaxy that will add two-star champions to the carousel. You can check out both of these galaxies now on PBE.

Overall, we're excited about how TFT: Galaxies is going so far, and mostly that's because you're excited about it. While we had a rough first patch with Gangplank and the other legendaries, we seem to be in a better spot moving forward. The galaxies have landed well and added a bunch of new ways to play, and there seems to be a lot of creativity and exciting moments happening. Lots of comps are able to win, and we’re even seeing good counter comps developed. We’re looking to keep that momentum with the addition of Dark Star Xerath and even more galaxies, which we hope you look forward to. We’re also open to removing galaxies that aren’t adding new and interesting strategies to your gameplay, so keep letting us know what you think!

- Riot Beernana, Communications Strategist, and Riot Mort, Game Design Lead

So obviously Fiddlesticks’ update was amazing, but what made you want to turn Fiddle into such a nightmare when someone like Nocturne is a living nightmare? It feels like you set a new standard for darker thematic champs, so can we expect champions like Shaco, Cho’Gath, or even Karthus to receive monstrous transformations, if they get an update?
I can’t say for sure what will happen when and if those champs get VGUs, since that will depend on where the creative process takes us and what makes sense for each of them. I can talk a bit about Nocturne and Fiddle since that was something we discussed a lot in the early ideation phase on Fiddlesticks. Both Fiddle and Nocturne are in the scary/horror camps with kits to support it. They both jump on you out of nowhere, so horror themes are a pretty solid thematic fit.

When we talked about Nocturne and Fiddle, we wanted to make sure they felt separate and unique from each other. After a lot of discussion, we decided that Nocturne was more about psychological horror and Fiddle was more about physical horror. Fiddlesticks makes people physically terrified when they look at him, immediately fearing for their lives and fleeing as fast as they can, with almost zero chance of escape. Basically a “slasher flick” kind of horror.

Nocturne is more about psychological terror, haunting its victims dreams, slowly building fear… the anticipation mounting. It’s more about breaking victims down psychologically and feeding off of their terror. He's much more in the “suspense/horror” camp. You know he’s out there. You know at any moment with the press of a button, the screen can go dark and he will be right next to you—but you don’t know when that will happen. That anticipation is horrifying in a very different way.

Don’t worry, we plan on making Nocturne scary when we finally get to his VGU. I don’t know about you all, but the anticipation is killing me.

- Reav3, Lead Producer of Champions

Are there any plans on expanding or exploring other continents of Runeterra? I just want to see a world beyond Valoran, Shurima, and Ionia. I'm so curious what the other continents look like!
As of right now, we’re working on the understanding that the “known” map of Runeterra represents about 1/6th of the world. We’ve still got plenty of those three continents to fill out and define, though—the map is nowhere near completion, yet.

In terms of adding new lands to it, it’s not something we’d ever rule out, if those lands are proven to exist. But it would likely require us to actually set more stories outside of the three continents, and thus far that is something we have not done.

But we definitely do know of events that have taken place outside of the known map. Many of the oldest civilizations in Shurima came from a westward cultural migration, meaning that there are (or at least were) much older civilizations in unknown lands far to the east. Neeko’s vastayan tribe, the Oovi-kat, also appear to have suffered some sort of catastrophe in fairly recent times, forcing her to flee into what is now known to be Ixtal. It’s also very likely that the original homeland of Hecarim, Kalista, and Ledros existed somewhere else, since there is no clear indication that this kingdom continued to exist anywhere in Valoran, after the Ruination of the Blessed Isles.

Are any of these things linked? Right now, it’s impossible to say… but we will continue to explore them, and who knows where that will take us in future.
Gameplay and Champions
Aphelios now gains a new gun every time a player makes a thread about him on Reddit
Missing a cannon minion will now automatically trigger the question mark ping
Fixed a bug where choosing Soraka auto-swapped your position to top lane
Put a “no smoking sign” in front of the alcove
Use our 200 collective years of experience to ensure all champions launch with a 60%+ winrate
Meta-Game Systems
Fixed a bug where post-game reports were accidentally routed to someone who can do something about them
Introduce forced "Clash: 1v1 Me" for players who rage at each other in solo queue. Winners are banned and losers are also banned, but we call their mom too.
Clash: 1v1 Me is delayed in EUW due to unrelated server issues
Explore further ranked changes to massage the fact that you're just not good enough to hit Plat
Fixed a bug where your TFT rank wasn’t showing in your League Ranked match loading screen
Personalization (aka Skins and Events)
Every time someone posts a “it’s been x days since y champion got a skin” thread on Reddit, we delay production of a skin for said champion by one additional year
Release the Bellissimoh ASMR announcer pack
Release the Phreak "Still pronounces Nidalee wrong" announcer pack
Fixed an issue where disabling Eternals would save between logins. The setting will now be cleared upon every login. Consecutive disables will increase the size of the Eternals Callouts in-game.
Comms
Many Rioters were harmed in the making of this post. Many more think they were harmed but in reality were not.
We are surely going to get lit on fire in internal chat channels
Esports
Added role selection to G2 Esports lobbies
Fixed a bug where TSM could only 2-0 or 0-2
Fixed a bug where Doublelift was only able to select Senna
Fixed bug that led to CLG having a good split
Removed Yuumi from Sam "Kobe" Hartman-Kenzler's account
Next patch will address LCK's recent low international win rate
Fixed bug where building Morellonomicon broke Twitter
Teamfight Tactics
Change the direction champions move in the carousel (Note: high priority)
Ask League to make enough skins for one champion to make a whole set from that champion (besides Lux)
Bring to smartwatches
Ban Iron players and send them a link to PlayRuneterra.com
Legends of Runeterra
Remove Shadow Isles as a region
Add Elnuks as a region
Add new keyword: TrueElusive (can only be blocked by TrueElusive units)
Make Ruination automatically trigger the Braum Wave emote
Increase base XP when playing from 1AM - 5AM
Ranked queue has been split into “NETDECKERS” and “TROLLING”
Ban Iron players and send them a link to teamfighttactics.leagueoflegends.com/
League of Legends: Wild Rift
Downgraded the minspec for Wild Rift to Nokia 3310
New monetization feature: RINGTONES
QA pass to ensure there are no black loading screens that might accidentally result in you seeing your own horrifying reflection
VALORANT
We spent our entire development budget on music and free 128-tick servers for everyone, so now we can’t afford memes
It’s okay we never wanted to do memes anyway
VALORANT, not Valorant
Pretend there’s a Spongebob here saying VaLoRaNt (okay we bought one old meme)
Riot Games
Physical offices must add “S” to their signs before end of April
The real autobattler is all of Riot’s games fighting for the same audience
Have a question? Head here, drop your question in the box, and ask away.
How’d you make the VO for Fiddlesticks? It’s spooky af.
As you might expect, crafting the iconic voice of a champion begins with a compelling—and in this case, brilliantly spine-tingling—performance from the voice talent. When you start with a deeply evocative portrayal of the character through sublime voice acting, my job as a VO designer becomes a lot easier. It unlocks the ability to take a really interesting starting point and push it to the next level of the otherworldly, the unsettling, and the downright weird.

As soon as I heard the early auditions for Fiddlesticks, I was hooked. Kellen Goff, the voice actor, brought a stunning range of dynamic textures and colors to Fiddle’s voice during records, which gave me an amazing performance to push and pull, splice and enhance to unearth those special and bone-chilling moments. The sessions with Kellen yielded gem after gem of self-contained horrifying textures that I simply needed to glue together into a mosaic of death.

To see how Kellen does it, check out his video below (3:40 and 4:58 are both spooky spots.)


When it came to the core design, it felt only appropriate that the voice of Fiddlesticks would serve as a sonic parallel to the creature itself: a dry, rattling, disjointed, vaguely humanoid form with a terrible demonic presence just out of sight, occasionally peeking through and threatening to burst forth. To this end, I started tinkering with a lot of different effects: some subtle, deeper doubled textures that would intensify on certain sinister words; a hint of a dark, cold, oppressive reverb; and even some inhuman animal and insect textures woven throughout. It was important that Fiddle never felt like it was utilizing the anatomical tools of a human with a voice: lips, lungs, or any other organic matter. It couldn’t get too wet, too gurgly, too feral. That’s not who Fiddle is. It’s a macabre, breathless monster driven by a deep need to hunt without truly understanding speech.

00:08
00:06
00:03
- Riot Zimerfly, VO Director

Is item specific lore a thing that could happen? I don’t know about anyone else, but I personally would love to read a canonical short story involving the items of Runeterra. Rabadons, Lich Bane, etc.…
For many folks, one of the most exciting things about League of Legends (the MOBA) is all the tiny little nuggets of lore scattered throughout it from the past ten years of development. And while some of the shop items are fairly unremarkable, others almost cry out for a proper backstory. Sometimes literally.

However, it can be tricky—though not impossible—-to tell an interesting narrative entirely focused on a sword, or a piece of armor, or a magic gem. A weapon can’t generally be the protagonist of a story… unless it’s one of the five remaining Darkin, of course. But stories with great characters that also feature these artifacts in some way? Heck yes, sign me up. I want to learn more about this Doran fella…

I’ve seen some fantastic theories out there about, say, the Lost Chapter, Tear of the Goddess, or the legendary Blade of the Ruined King, and it’s almost certain that we will tell more stories featuring items like this in the not-too-distant future.

- Riot Scathlocke, Narrative Editorial Director



Why do in-game models sometimes differ from splash art so much? For example, Nightbringer Aphelios is black and red in his splash, but has a lot of blue in his actual model. Aside from instances like Blood Moon Aatrox where the color saturation is upped for better gameplay clarity, what is the reason for these differences?
While splash art and in-game models are closely connected, they have different goals. With in-game models, the top priority is gameplay readability. Since splash doesn’t have that consideration, our big goal is to create deep immersion and something we call “cinematic believability” in our illustrations. You can think of this the same way a comic book character translates to a big blockbuster movie. The movie version will have higher-detail fidelity in the costume, materials, and render, including invented details that didn’t exist in other versions. There will also be dynamic, moody lighting depending on the scene’s emotional tone or setting. We even think about things like camera distortion, lens flares, dust motes in the air, and film grain. All of this stacks up to make something more believable, and more cinematic, than other representations can achieve.

Sometimes the mood and light can mean colors aren’t as punchy as they might be in the model textures—like Nightbringer Aphelios’s cool, dark scenario—and it can also make other colors really pop, like the bright red tassels on his jacket. That said, we don’t want the splash art to feel totally different from what you see in game, so we do take the time to compare the splash to the in-game model—we even try to “model” the character so they match the pose in the splash art.

Nightbringer_Vladimir_Splash_Cohesion.jpg
Ultimately, we want to make sure we’re keeping splashes and models close to each other while still hitting our unique goals.
What are you doing to prevent smurfing in Clash?
Smurfing in Clash is something we’re taking very seriously, but also something we know is very difficult to solve. We’ve already done some things to hinder smurfing, like requiring SMS verification, making players place in a Ranked queue, and running smurf detection behind-the-scenes to try and make sure we have the best possible skill estimate for every player. But these measures aren’t catching 100% of smurfs, so we’re going to keep adding in more measures to make sure Clash stays fair.

This doesn’t mean you’ll never have a particularly stompy game in Clash, or ever bump up against someone who you suspect is better than their rank says they are. That said, we are going to continue implementing new ways to discourage smurfing. There are approaches we can take when we can conclusively identify that an account is a smurf, such as banning the account from playing in Clash again and revoking the rewards earned by that player’s team. We want to be VERY careful with those kinds of punishments, because punishing someone incorrectly would be awful, but we want to make sure that the teams winning Clash got there through fair play.

- RiotIAmWalrus, Game Designer

I'd love to know if you’ve considered making a ranked version of aram. I would like a version of aram that’s taken more seriously.
Ranked ARAM is definitely something we’ve thought about and discussed in the past, but it has a number of issues that make us cautious. Part of what makes ARAM fun is the randomness (it’s right there in the name), so putting too much emphasis on competition can make the randomness go from fun to frustrating. The champs you and other players receive can massively affect the outcome of a game, and no one wants to feel like they lost in “champ select” with LP on the line.

Additionally, while ARAM is popular, there aren’t as many people playing at any given time as there are in Summoner’s Rift. Ranked ARAM wouldn’t be right for everyone, and if we split the population of ARAM players up between Normals and Ranked, matchmaking would take longer for both queues. Then if people stop playing as much because queues take too long, it’d only make the problem worse.

One other issue is that Ranked ARAM could push players to dodge more or create limited champion ARAM-only accounts—both of which we already see today in limited amounts, even without a Ranked system for people to care about.

All this being said, you’re definitely not the only player interested in showing off your ARAM skill in a competitive environment, and we have put more effort lately into balancing champions and items for ARAM. There may be some ways to bring that more competitive feel to ARAM, but just opening up a Ranked queue is probably not the right answer.

- RiotIAmWalrus, Game Designer

How do I send you a picture for rp? i need 20rp for beemo
If you only need a tiny amount of RP to get your favorite skin, we’re here for you! Create a quality picture—perhaps lovingly drawn in three minutes with MSPaint—to showcase your years of artistic training and talent and your love for League. Then reach out to Player Support and open a ticket asking about your desire, and don’t forget to include your recently drawn masterpiece. We’ll be sure to fix you up!

(To submit your magnum opus, scroll down on the Player Support page until you see the “Submit a ticket” button. We suggest selecting “RP purchases, store issues” as the request type, but as long you include your artwork and how much RP ya need, we’ve got you covered.)
Why is there autofill in ranked?
When we make a game, we want to find ten players of equal skill in the positions they want to be playing. But unfortunately, not every position is equally popular, so we have to get people to fill in for those positions to make sure matches happen in a reasonable amount of time. Without autofill, finding matches would not only take longer, but they’d end up involving a broader skill range, as we stretch our search outward to find the 10th player we need. Our goal is to strike the right balance between making you wait for a game and making the fairest games possible, and autofill is a necessary part of that balance.

While we probably can’t ever fully do away with autofill, we are looking to make changes to improve upon the system. We’re currently testing out “autofill parity” in some regions, which means that when we make a match with an autofilled player on one team, the opposing team also has an autofilled player so the matchup feels more fair. As soon as we know these changes are going well (hopefully within a few months), we will roll them out globally. And if it’s not going so well, we’ll roll it back and try again.


Once these initial changes are in a good place, we can even try to get both autofilled players facing off in the same position. No promises here though—forcing autofills to be in the same position can make queue times explode if we’re not careful, so we’ll be doing a lot of testing first.

- RiotIAmWalrus, Game Designer

How do you plan to improve the top lane?
Top lane is a position that I really love (it’s my main role), and we see it as a unique place where mostly fighters and tanks get to duel it out in the most isolated matchup on the map. So our focus here isn’t really on changing the experience or champ pool in the lane significantly (...besides balancing some very OP Enchanters). The area we think the lane could currently be improved in is having slightly higher overall game impact. In other words… how well can a great top laner carry the game?

In upcoming patches, we’re exploring a few different ways to improve top lane impact:

Carrying through items: We have a few potential changes to core top lane items like Black Cleaver, Sunfire, and the Hydra items to give fighters and tanks some more carry power later.
Early strategic impact: In the past we saw top lane having a higher influence with a much more powerful Teleport summoner, so we’re seeing if we can recapture some of that access it gave top laners to the wider game without falling into the old problems (full team of TP, bot lane party, etc.).
Turning leads into victories: Finding some ways to slightly amp up the payout in the early game for winning top lane can make it more comparable to the other positions. We’re exploring things like increasing melee damage to plates and making Rift Herald more comparable in value to dragon.
- Riot Scruffy, Lead Gameplay Designer

Why are you trying to make it so zed can jungle?
We recently talked about this in Quick Gameplay Thoughts. At a high level, we’re trying to widen the jungle champion pool to help make the role more appealing.

When we were digging into our results and follow-ups from this year’s preseason, we were really struck by a problem in the jungle role that we’d never been able to fix: Throughout League's entire history, low MMR players have preferred the jungle position least of all 5 positions, regardless of whether jungle is strong or weak relative to the other 4 positions. We think this will take a variety of changes to fix in the long term, but we want to also do some short-term work to improve jungle appeal.

In terms of available viable champions in the role, jungle is fairly narrow. This makes jungling doubly hard to learn as a new(ish) player: Not only do you need to learn about clearing camps and ganking, you can't use the champions you're already familiar with. So, in 10.4 we added a handful of champs that see a lot of play in low MMR into the jungle pool. We made very focused changes that buff these champs' jungle clears but leave their lanes unchanged. If this strategy works well we may expand the jungle champ pool even more in further patches.
What is the process for choosing which champions will get a prestige skin? Why would you give champions one when they already have legendary skins?
I’m glad you asked! Once we decide on some of the upcoming skin thematics, we select several that match up with the timing for events or Prestige Point skin releases. By the time we start deciding which champion to make a Prestige skin for, the champs within that thematic have usually been determined for a while.

When we are selecting a champion for a Prestige skin, we consider a number of factors… 

Is there a Prestige skin that’d work well for one of the champions in the thematic? Arclight Brand for example, is a skin that would be hard to execute on because of the overlap in colors and materials. 
How popular is the champion, and when was the last time they got a skin? So far we have released Prestige skins mostly for champions with higher playrates, but we are experimenting with lower ones in the future to see how much players like them. 
Have they received a Prestige skin before? Ideally we don’t double up, but there might be exceptions if we don’t find a better fit and the skinline is part of an event that calls for one. 
When it comes to the overlap with Legendaries, we try to stay away from doubling up when possible (at least in the same year), but it’s not a huge factor, as they serve different purposes. Legendaries are about creating a unique skin for a champion unlike anything in their catalog that is either an augmentation of who they are or a complete re-imagination of the character within a skin thematic fantasy. Prestige skins are about taking an existing skin and adding rarity and desirability through more expensive-looking (and often sparkly!) materials in the model and VFX as well as the ways you can get the skin.

As far as ever creating a Legendary Prestige skin, that’s not something we are currently planning to do.

I’d also like to call out that we are still experimenting around with a few different selection methods and executions and will update players as our approach evolves. With only just over a dozen of them out in the world, it’s still a new product for us, and we learn more about it with each release.

In case you missed it, check out this post for a list of champions getting Prestige skins in the first half of 2020.

IAMCARLOS
Lead Producer of Skins, Personalization
In TFT, why is there such a huge jump from milestone #10 (8500 points) to #11 (20,000 points)? It feels like such an impossible task to get there that i don’t even want to bother trying. Similarly, why are there only 6 missions (2 of which are just “play the game”) every two weeks?
Many of you have different amounts of time to play TFT and complete missions. We really don’t want anyone who plays TFT on a regular basis to feel left out because they can’t play multiple hours a day, or because they missed some missions one week. This is why we set the target for milestone 10 at 8500 XP—hitting that amount is challenging and requires active play, but not a huge grind.

We also know some of you are extremely engaged and play a ton of TFT, and we didn’t want you to get halfway into the season and have nothing left to work for. So we added milestone 11 as a “bonus” mission for highly invested players to progress towards. We had thought of it as a challenge, a huge jump in XP that would require dedicated work throughout the season but would be something to work towards even if you were progressing really quickly. From the reactions and responses we’ve seen, I’d say this hasn’t really gone as planned. I regret that so many people reach milestone 10, look to the next reward and are disheartened. Some rewards should be difficult to earn, but reaching a new milestone also shouldn’t be a disheartening moment. In response to this, we reduced the XP required for milestone 11 from 20,000 to 16,000.

As for the number of missions we have in TFT, we usually run six missions a week. Over the holidays we imagined you would be more busy than normal, so we ran slightly less missions and made them worth more XP each to compensate. In general, we try to run a number of missions that sets a good balance between structured and unstructured play. It wouldn’t be super fun if all of your TFT games you were being pushed to do one strategy in order to get mission XP.

RIOTWREKZ
Senior Game Designer
About the Season 2020 missions, one says “Let’s play ranked for 3 games”… Why can’t you have an option to play like 7 of any other game. I myself am 49 years old and I just don’t like how they troll you on ranked. I’m here to have fun not worry about every move I make, hence why I play aram exclusively. thank you!
At the highest level, our missions fall into two buckets: 1) Give players additional rewards for playing, and 2) Serve as “calls to action” to motivate players to do or try things that they may not do or try otherwise.

Examples of mission type #1 are things like earn gold, take structures, and get takedowns—actions that happen naturally through playing and aren’t gameplay warping or distracting. These are usually live during events so that playing is even more rewarding. 

Examples of call-to-action missions include things like “watch some esports matches,” and in this case, “go play ranked.” Our hope with this mission is that it motivates some players to try ranked who may not have otherwise. We set the number of games needed pretty low so that if players who try ranked aren’t loving it, they don’t feel like they have to keep playing. We also aim to set the rewards for call-to-action missions “low” enough, so it doesn’t feel too bad or frustrating if you flat-out don’t want to do them. For example, the “esports watch missions” often just give some Blue Essence, as does the “play ranked” mission.

In short… our hope with a mission like “play three ranked games” is that we can give you a nice reward if you decide to give ranked (or something else) a try, without setting the reward so high that you feel like you have to play.

XENOGENIC
Game Design Lead
Do you plan on doing more work on ARAM this year?
Yes!

We currently work on ARAM in two ways. First, we take the pulse of ARAM’s balance and game health every 2–3 patches and make small adjustments as necessary. For the most part, these adjustments will be tweaks to champions’ damage-taken and damage-dealt, but we may sometimes make minor adjustments to items, runes, or other parts of the game.

Second, we periodically make more impactful and experimental changes to ARAM shake things up as part of a major event. Most of these changes will only last the length of that event, but we’ll also try to include a few things that could become the new normal for ARAM. For example, AoE health packs, poke damage reduction, and the reroll bench all made their first appearances during a big event, and they improved the ARAM experience enough to stick around forever. 

We expect to do an event like this roughly once a year (although this doesn’t guarantee an event like this every year). Right now, we are currently exploring some directions for 2020. The exact timing will depend on a lot of things, like the types of changes planned and which other game modes we’re working on. For more details on what an ARAM event might look like, check out some of the previous /dev articles, including where we announced the last ARAM event and talked about what we learned. And if there’s something you’d like to see, please let us know!
What’s going on with Riot Accounts? Why did I have to change the username I use to log into League?
In short: We have to update the account system so we can launch new games. When this update takes effect, it’ll cause problems for players with login names that aren’t globally unique (aka, someone else in another region has it as well), so we’re asking players with duplicate usernames to change them. This only affects the username you use to sign into League. Your Summoner Name will not be affected.

The long version: In preparation for launching new games, we need to rebuild our account system. The old system linked accounts to specific regions, meaning we couldn’t release another game unless it has the same exact regional divisions as League of Legends. This is problematic as we might offer different regional configurations for future games.

In order to fix this, every player needs a unique username, and there’s currently a lot of duplication across servers. As long as there are two people with the same username, neither will be able to log in when we activate the unique username system. We tried to find a way to make the system work differently, but couldn’t find a solution that would be reliable, secure, and sustainable for a multi-game platform.

We wish this transition were less painful and inconvenient. We know it sucks to have to change a piece of your identity as a player, even if it’s one that only you can see. We’re asking players to change how they log in now—before the unique username system activates—so everyone’s experience with future games is as smooth as possible. We know this process hasn’t met your expectations, and frankly, it hasn’t met ours either. We’re working hard to make sure our new systems are as future-proof as possible to avoid situations like this down the line.

In the meantime, we hope that being able to save your username and password to auto-login will make things a little easier. We’re also exploring allowing you to log in with your email address instead of your username, which we’ve seen a lot of players ask for. And for anyone who’s unhappy with the username they changed to, we’re planning on letting you change your login credentials again early next year.

- MOSHIDOG, Senior Director, Player Platform Team

Why didn’t you make it so the oldest account (or first one to log in) gets to keep the login name?
We considered this, but it comes with a host of other problems.

Let’s say you and one other person have the same username, but you had it first. Once the unique username system launches, there’s no way for the login system to know which account that username is trying to access. Is it you, the one who had it first, or is it the other person trying to log in?

The only way around this would be to change the other person’s account for them, but that has the risk of locking players out of their accounts forever. Imagine not knowing your username was changed, trying to log in with the username you’ve always used, then getting the “wrong password” message over and over because the login system now thinks you’re trying to log into the other person’s account. And if you don’t have access to the email associated with your account, you wouldn’t even be able to recover the new username (plus you wouldn’t have gotten a notification about the change in the first place).

- MOSHIDOG, Senior Director, Player Platform Team

How are you going to balance Senna so she’s good as a support but not too strong as an ADC?
It’s always been a goal for Senna to be playable as both a support and an ADC. To help make this a reality we added a few position-specific tuning levers to her kit during development. The primary place we’d look to tune is her Passive’s mist collection game. Mist stacks influence the power of nearly everything on Senna’s kit, and making a specific role get more or less of them has shown to have meaningful impact on that role’s effectiveness. This is why souls are less likely to drop from minions Senna kills—ADC Senna gets more gold and more items, so she needs less stacks to be effective. If ADC is too strong in the future we can make it less likely to see souls drop from cannon minions, whereas if support is too weak, we could consider upping the number of souls that drop from minions she doesn’t kill.

Other adjustments outside the passive to consider are how Senna scales with the item system. Support Senna has access to AP builds, and buffing those ratios could help her in a way that ADC Senna cares less about. ADC Senna on the other hand has an easier time saving up for big AD items like Infinity Edge, which makes adjusting her Crit Damage ratio a potent tuning lever if her carry role needs changes.

At the end of the day, we want ADC and support Senna to be close in power level, but they don’t need to have the exact same winrate. The dream is that they both feel viable without one being so strong that it requires us to destroy the other. I’m optimistic that we’ll be able to tune around and preserve both playstyles for years to come, but, if that proves impossible, we’ll prioritize support Senna over ADC.

- AUGUST, Senna’s Designer

Why’d you make two marksmen back to back?
Generally we attempt to create a varied schedule for the year, with a bunch of different themes, classes, roles, kit complexity/difficulty, tone, regions, gender, etc. We balance this between new champs and VGUs, which is one of the reasons we haven’t released a new jungler in a bit, since quite a few recent VGUs were junglers.

So why then did we release Senna and Aphelios back to back? To answer this, we have to go back a bit in time. We started early exploration on Aphelios before we began working on Senna. He was a complex champion that required a pretty long ideation period to get his kit right, and then also a longer-then-average production cycle to build due to the complexity of his kit. As we were working on Aphelios, we started thinking about which champions we could make for League’s 10 Year Anniversary, and we felt creating a champion that would be exciting to long-time League players would feel really good for that moment.

After some brainstorming, we decided that bringing Senna out of the lantern would be impactful and feel nostalgic to all the players who’ve known about Senna since Lucian and Thresh were released. At that point it became more about doing what was right for Senna, and not what was right for the champion release schedule. We quickly came to the conclusion that it made sense for Senna to be a marksman since she was portrayed as one in all the previous lore. We also felt it would be important for her to interact and lane with Lucian, which is why we decided to build her as a support marksman despite the fact we had already released a support this year (Yuumi) and already had Aphelios planned for the end of the year.

Bottom line is that while we like to keep to a varied champion release schedule, we are willing to sacrifice that if we feel there is a good opportunity that will be impactful and exciting.

- REAV3, Lead Producer of Champions

We’ll do our best to read every question, but we can’t guarantee they’ll all get answers. Some questions may already be answered elsewhere, and some won’t be right for Ask Riot. This isn’t the best place to announce new features, for example, and we might skip conversations on issues we’ve talked about in depth before (though we can clarify individual points).

We are listening, though, so keep asking. We’ll make sure your questions are heard by the Rioters working on the stuff you’re curious about.
You regularly offer events around themes, champions, or skin series (like Project), but these events have become less quality over time. The gaming experience doesn’t bring anything new to players (like game modes), and we have very limited tasks compared to former events, which makes it banal. Will you do more substantial and interesting events for players?
Yes, absolutely! We’ve heard this feedback and wholeheartedly agree—events have become more stale this year. We want each event to feel like a unique experience that all players can be excited for, which is why our goal moving forward is to make participating in events more rewarding, more novel, and more memorable for everyone.

Here are some of the ways we hope to achieve this:

Bring back game modes (new and old) to events
Improve how missions interact with events, similarly to Trials (ex: Trials gave you a progress bar you filled up by doing missions, which in turn gave you house-specific rewards for the event, so it all felt more cohesive)
Deliver more missions and a greater variety of missions beyond just “farm minions,” “get kills,” or “earn gold”
You’ll begin to see some of these changes soon, starting with our first small steps for the upcoming Worlds event, and we’ll continue making improvements into 2020. I hope you enjoy the Worlds event, and we look forward to hearing your feedback during and afterwards!

- XENOGENIC - Game Design Lead

Why can’t we play custom games of URF and the other game modes?
We’ve talked before about the type of work that goes into keeping rotating game modes functional: Things like new and updated champs, abilities, items, runes, and skins don’t always play nice with modes. Changes or refactors to the game’s underlying code—like how damage is recorded or how textures are loaded into game—can be even more problematic, as the rapid development cycle of RGMs often means we’re building them with duct tape and bubble gum. Back when we were releasing modes more frequently, this type of upkeep work took about half of the Modes team’s total time.

But what about customs? Wouldn’t it be okay for rotating game modes to be a bit buggy if there’s nothing on the line, and shouldn’t that make it easy for Riot to offer rotating game modes in customs?

The answer is no. We aren’t willing to offer a knowingly—basically intentionally—buggy experience for customs because we want your League experience to be high quality regardless of how you’re playing. Principled stances aside, some bugs are bad enough that they can crash entire game servers, meaning hundreds of matches would crash, not just the customs they occur in. So even if we were willing to let players opt into a buggy experience in custom games, it’d still lead to risks for the rest of League players as well.

That means it takes the same amount of work to bring a mode back for customs as it does to bring it back for queues, which takes us back to our previous discussions around why we’ve chosen to invest our time into developing new modes, rather than keeping older modes on rotation.

- RIOT POPC0RNER & RIOT AETHER

Any updates on Clash?
In May, we shared a list of what we’d need to do to relaunch Clash globally. Here’s an update on our progress…

Redesign: Done!
More Internal Testing: Done!
Regional Testing: This is where we’re at now, and it’s going well. We’ve run three regional tests using the new Clash model in Turkey, LATAM South, and NA. So far we’ve only run into minor issues, so we’re gonna keep moving forward. We’re tentatively planning to hit the rest of Riot regions over the course of a couple weekends between now and mid-October, but our schedule could definitely change depending on how things go.
Global Beta: Once all of the regional tests run smoothly, we’ll run a bigger beta across multiple regions simultaneously. We’re currently hoping to do this at the end of this year or early next year.
Launch: Once we complete a successful global beta—and see the new system works to scale and across all regions—Clash will be ready for prime time. Date is TBD.
We’ll keep ya updated as we continue to make progress on the milestones above.

- RIOTIAMWALRUS, Designer, Competitive

We’ll do our best to read every question, but we can’t guarantee they’ll all get answers. Some questions may already be answered elsewhere, and some won’t be right for Ask Riot. This isn’t the best place to announce new features, for example, and we might skip conversations on issues we’ve talked about in depth before (though we can clarify individual points).

We are listening, though, so keep asking. We’ll make sure your questions are heard by the Rioters working on the stuff you’re curious about.
Guess what time it is. If you guessed “time for another Champion Roadmap” then pat yourself on the back (unless you read the title already like most people, then I’m not nearly as impressed). But yes! It is time for another exciting edition of the League of Legends Champion Roadmap! In written form this time because as much as I love talking, it’s way easier to hide subtle teases in text, which makes these fun to write. But enough about me, let’s talk about what you all came here for: champions!

It’s been a little while since Renata Glasc took to the Rift in all her power-suited glory. In our last Roadmap I mentioned we were going to slow down new champion production a bit. We want to make sure every champion gets the time and attention they need before they’re shipped, even if that means we don't hit every position in a year. While we don’t know exactly how many champions we’ll release this year, it should be pretty similar to last year.

That being said, we think the champions currently in development are pretty exciting, and that’s exactly what we’re here to talk about. I’ll also go over a couple upcoming VGUs, as well as a new project we’re trying out called a Comprehensive Gameplay Update (CGU)—I know, another acronym, but I promise we’re not adding more just to see how many you can keep track of—but more on that below. So let’s get into it.

A Whole New World
Don’t you dare close your eyes! The Champions Team has something coming soon. Something beautiful, something inevitable, something foretold. A new skirmisher for all those jungle players out there. A new Empress to submit to… and you will submit.

Those who do so willingly will be rewarded by becoming part of the ever-expanding Lavender Sea, crashing like waves against the enemies’ defensive structures. Give in to your Empress and let her feed on your essence, so you may become part of the new evolution of Runeterra. And as an added bonus, if you succumb to her you will also bear witness to her true elegance, her true beauty, and the true face of the Void.

Who wouldn’t want that? I already submitted in January. And while there wasn’t cake, it was still a good time. So what are you all waiting for?

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_01_Empress.jpg

A Joyous Occasion
Next up the Champions Team would love for all of you to join us down at Oyster Bill’s Oyster Shack! Grab some of the best oysters in all of Runeterra while you listen to one of Oyster Bill’s tall tales!

In fact, just last night we stopped by and saw the place was a wreck. Tables smashed, bottles broken, strange glowing puddles all over the place. According to Oyster Bill it was caused by a colorful but deadly stranger who came to Runeterra from a land across the seas.

He claimed some Noxians were getting rowdy and one of them accidentally knocked over the stranger’s oysters. The colorful one laughed a most joyous laugh as they stood up from their table. The Noxian looked confused at first, then, thinking the stranger was making fun of her, got in their face. The rest of her war band stood to join her, grabbing their weapons when mist suddenly filled the restaurant. Oyster Bill said all he heard was joyous laughter and the sound of splashing water. When the mist cleared all ten of the heavily armed and armored Noxians were dead and the stranger was nowhere to be seen.

We laughed as we always do when Bill tells one of his famous stories, sure it was just a random bar fight that caused the mess—but hey that’s not nearly as exciting! When one of the other customers doubted the story, Bill doubled down on his claim that it was true, and that the mysterious stranger was, in fact, living in a room above his restaurant. He said that if any of us wanted to go talk to them ourselves we were welcome to.

We passed that night, but who knows. Maybe if you join us next time we can go and see if this stranger from the land of a thousand colors is real or not.

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_02_Oyster_Bill_nicetry.png

Guarding Spirits
There isn’t much to say about Udyr that wasn’t covered in our last update—he’s still a big boi hanging out in the Freljordian wilds, communing with spirit animals. Base Udyr is finished at this point and now we are focusing on his skin catalog, with most of the team working on his Spirit Guard skin. We really want to pour a lot of love and attention into that skin, with it being an Ultimate and all.

One of the goals for Spirit Guard is to keep some of the essence of old Udyr, so to do that it will represent the time he spent training in Ionia, and will also use the same animals as pre-VGU Udyr (Tiger, Bear, Turtle, and Phoenix). We wanted Spirit Guard to immortalize his old animal forms, while also cranking them up to 11. I don’t want to spoil everything yet, but I will leave you with concept art and an early model of his Spirit Guard skin before he channels one of his animal spirits.

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_03_spiritguard_udyr_body.png

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_04_SpiritGuardUdyr_01.jpg

Star-Forging a New Dragon
Let’s talk about Aurelion Sol. Back when we announced the Star Forger, a lot of you were super hyped for his release. So hyped that he had one of our highest purchase rates on day one. Tons of you really loved and wanted to play a gigantic, arrogant star dragon. Unfortunately, we didn’t really deliver on a gameplay kit that matched that excitement, as most of you dropped him after just a few games. His playrate plummeted to one of the lowest in the game, where he has been ever since. That said, he still comes up in the top ten most liked visuals whenever we do champion surveys, even though his gameplay always ends up near the very bottom of the list.

We’ve tried some small tweaks to ASol, but when we discussed what we should do to help him out, we came to the consensus that we should just start his gameplay over from scratch.

We didn’t think patching up his kit with small changes would deliver on his promised thematic fantasy, so we decided to try a new type of champion update: a Comprehensive Gameplay Update or CGU.

The goal of a CGU is to update gameplay for two types of champions: Those that have high quality art and narrative, but whose gameplay just doesn’t quite deliver on their fantasies, or champions with more complicated gameplay issues that can’t be solved by changing one or two abilities (like the small adjustments to Tahm Kench were able to accomplish). We then rebuild the champion’s kit from scratch with the same model, theme, and narrative. ASol will be the first champion to go through a CGU, and if you’re happy with the results we may take a look at other champions that fall into these categories in the future.

Anyway back to Aurelion Sol. Our goal is to give the space puppy an entirely new kit with massive changes similar to VGUs like Urgot’s or Sion’s, while making sure that it’s still thematically cohesive with who he already is.

We want to emphasize his dragon fantasy, as we don’t think he currently delivers on that part of his persona very well. We also think our new take on his star forging gameplay will be both spectacular to see and more intuitive to play. While things can always change, we’re currently targeting some time at the end of the year to get a new and improved Star Dragon in your hands. We really hope he’ll finally deliver on the fantasy you all were excited about many moons (stars?) ago.

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_05_champion_aurelionsol_splash.png

Digging Deep Beneath the Sand
Let’s talk about the champion that won the VGU poll earlier this year: Skarner. We haven’t yet officially started on Skarner’s VGU (it will start very soon), but that sure didn’t stop Larry “BravoRay” Ray from doing some high-level sketches for inspiration. BravoRay is a huge fan of Skarner and couldn’t help himself so I thought it would be worth sharing some of his explorations.

041822_ChampionRoadmapApril2022_06_Skarner_Ideation_FIN.png

The first two rows are attempts to keep Skarner’s theme pretty much the same as live while making him more unique on the League roster by adding other fantastical elements rather than just a traditional scorpion body structure.

The third row contains explorations of a full reboot of the Brakern. It explores them as ancient protectors of the old Shuriman civilization before it was lost to the sand. The idea is that they are constructs built from crystals housing thousands of elite warriors' souls.

The last row is an exploration of a version of Skarner where his current lore is continued. We haven't committed to this yet, but in those versions he is captured by Piltover and experimented on in order to create a Hextech guardian they can control. But he regains his memories, escapes Piltover, and is now hellbent on destroying the city for what they did to him and his people. And now he has sweet Hextech augments to help him do it. Piltover will soon have a taste of their own medicine, and it is bitter.

Keep in mind these are all super early ideas coming out of BravoRay’s crazy head, so we aren't locked onto anything yet.

Shortly after we officially start working on Skarner we will do a bigger /dev blog with a lot more information from game design and narrative as well. For now let us know what you think of these explorations and if anything sounds exciting to you.

Outro
Well that’s about it for today. Hope you are all as excited about the upcoming champions and champion updates as I am. Look out for another Roadmap later this year where I will cover The Pride of Nazumah, a new high skill top lane tank from a region of Shurima that hasn’t been seen yet! See you all then.
Hey all, it’s been a while since we last shared an update on our plans for champions. We’ve got a bit to talk about in this post, including an update to this year’s release schedule, a peek at the next few champs, and a small update on Udyr’s VGU. So let’s get started with the champ release schedule.

Last year, we shared our goal to deliver one champion per role each year, with the exception of mid lane where we target two—one for assassin and skirmisher players, and another for mage players. We planned to continue that this year, but sadly it looks like we won’t get there.

Both of the champions we planned to release towards the end of the year were originally meant to tie into an event, but as development went on it became clear they didn’t quite fit. We felt good about both champions’ directions and didn’t want to change them to fit in with the event, so we decided to stay true to their characters. As such, we’ll be releasing the ADC early next year and the support a few patches after.

We’re not sure how this will affect our schedule for 2022 yet, but it’s possible we may release an extra champion next year. We should have a better idea by the next Champion Roadmap and will share more then.

On the bright side, I can finally share a bit about a project we’ve been working on that will finally be releasing later this year: our first Art and Sustainability Update. These are pure visual updates, which we haven’t done in... forever (the last one was Alistar in 2015). And while we aren’t quite ready to share who’s receiving the first ASU, we do have some information about what a “pure visual update” means and what you can expect.

Art & Sustainability Updates
League’s personalization team—aka the crew who works on skins, events, and other cosmetics—have started working on a new type of champion update called an Art & Sustainability Update, or ASU. The goal of ASUs is to help bring some of League’s older champions up to our modern quality standards, fix older technical issues, and make it easier to make new skins for those champions in the future.

An ASU is a visual refresh that allows us to bring a champion closer to modern expectations (or sometimes better match their representation in other areas of our IP). As such, these updates won’t heavily reimagine a champion’s lore or have any changes to their gameplay, which you’d normally see with a full VGU. With ASUs, we can fix certain elements of older champions that you’ve given us feedback on over the years—like broken necks and wrists, outdated animations, gameplay clarity improvements, outdated outfits and VO, etc. Also, ASUs are in addition to full VGUs, which the Champion Team will continue doing as usual.

With ASUs, our goal is to update the most critical elements of some of our older champs, that way they’re brought up to our current art and visual standards. This means that the base champion and the oldest skins for that champion will likely undergo the most change, and more recent skins or Legendaries are less likely to be updated.

We hope that by introducing ASUs, we can modernize more of your favorite champions and lay a better foundation for future skins. You can expect to see our first ASU launch later this year.

Ride The Lightning
We’ll have an electrifying start to 2022 with a brand new bot lane marksman who has been charging up and is rearing to finally get on the Rift. We wanted to create a kinetic marksman who’s always on the move, pulsing with sparky determination. A champ who plays the game at a machine gun pace and brings the feeling of a shooter game to the roster. We also really wanted to explore more unique basic attack concepts in League.

Marksmen are auto-attack champions by nature, and we’ve experimented with altered autos in the past with champs like Graves, Xayah, and Jhin. For this new champ, we wanted to re-explore the role of the basic attack in a marksman champion’s kit and see if we could completely turn its purpose around. I’m getting amped just thinking about it, and if you are as well, get ready for a hyper new champion very early next year.

092721_Marksman_Tease.jpg

Cash Rules Everything Around Me
Money runs this city. Technology, power, people. All can be bought when you have enough cash. Technology to reach out and take what you want, discarding it like trash when you're done. Power to turn your enemies against each other, watching them kill the very ones they swore to protect. And people to manipulate with your terrifying charisma, sending them to almost certain death, only being saved if they fulfill your wishes.

In the end they will know your name, the one that truly ran this game, the one calling the shots… the “support.”

092721_Support_Tease.jpg

The Latest on Udyr
We’ve made a lot of progress on Udyr’s VGU since we last checked in. We’re planning to do another blog early next year with a lot more info, but we wanted to talk about a few small things before then.

First up, let’s talk about his antlers.

When we shared our last update, many of you liked where his hair landed, but there was some uncertainty with his antlers. We discussed your feedback and decided that it was important to keep the antlers because they add a unique differentiator for his silhouette and readability, and because they provide a focus for his druidic power. However, we agree that the designs needed work because they were large and demanded a lot of attention. So we started with a new spread of smaller antlers.

092721_Udyr_Antlers_Riot_Earp.jpg

We thought option B was the most promising here, so we pursued that design. We think we’ve landed on something cleaner, more natural, and a little more “druidic focus” and less “sharp weapon.”

We also wanted to add something to Udyr’s design that expressed the friendship he cultivated with Lee Sin while in Ionia. To do this, we added a headwrap given to him by Lee Sin that he now uses as part of his hand wraps.

092721_Udyr_Mood_Riot_Earp.jpg

In Udyr’s last dev blog, we shared our idea of evolving Udyr’s theme by making each of his stances associated with a Freljordian demigod. Your response was overwhelmingly positive, which got us even more excited by the prospect of connecting Udyr to Runeterra in a much stronger way! We’ve decided to lock in this direction, and we can’t wait to talk to you more about it in the next blog. In the meantime, here’s some concept art that Justin “Riot Earp” Albers has been working on for Udyr’s demigod-inspired stances.

092721_Udyr_Stance_Riot_Earp.jpg

Until Next Year
That’s all we’ve got for today. Our next update will be at the start of next year where we’ll have a lot to share, including more details on the new villainous support, the next VGU planned after Udyr, as well as an overwhelming new jungler that should fill a void in all your hearts.
It’s been a while since the last roadmap where we officially kicked off the return of the Ruined King. While we don’t have a ton of new information to share at this moment, we do have a lot of updates on things we announced at the beginning of the year.

In January, we said that the next three champs after Viego would all tie into his return story. Gwen is the first of these champions, but her future remains a mystery. She definitely has a role to play in this twisted tale, but what exactly that is remains unknown… for now.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_02_Freljord.jpg

But enough about Viego and Gwen and the encroaching doom—let’s go on a wacky detour into Dr. Mundo’s VGU. Then we’ll get into the next two new champs, including an update on the gloomy mage’s release timing. Finally, we’ll take a pit stop at Udyr’s VGU, which you all chose at the beginning of the year.

Enter the Mundoverse
It’s been a bit since the last Mundo dev blog, but I can finally say we’re getting pretty close to re-releasing the Madman of Zaun. Thanks for everyone's patience (man this champion has a lot of skins).

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_03_Mundo_Tease.JPG

First off, we wanted to share some of Mundo’s new voice lines. New Mundo's VO comes across as a shade or two smarter than current Mundo—it was basically impossible for that not to be the case since live Mundo's lines don't even acknowledge the fact that he's a "doctor," let alone his reasoning (questionable as it might be) for the methods he chooses. As we’ve mentioned before, though, we want to preserve Mundo’s dark yet extremely comical (...and dumb) personality, and his VO is an important part of that.

00:02
00:07
Another thing we thought would be cool to share before his official launch is the final Rageborn Mundo splash art. In the last dev blog, we showed the final concept art for that skin, and since then we’ve finished it.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_04_Rageborn_Mundo_Splash.jpg

Finally, we’re currently putting the last bit of polish on his Legendary skin, Corporate Mundo. We want to make sure that skin hits the quality bar and expectations for modern Legendary skins. The team is having a blast working on it, as you can see by this fun animation Drew “Sandwichtown” Morgan put together to inspire the team.


… okay, we’ll also share a bit of Corporate Mundo’s new VO:

00:02
00:05
Now that we have gone through that maddening detour, let’s get back to those dark and edgy champions coming next in the return of the Ruined King saga.

From Street Rat to Sentinel
During the Season 2021 roadmap, I talked briefly about a charming new Sentinel of Light that will swing onto the Rift this summer. Now that there’s a lot more to grapple with, let’s talk in more detail.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_06_Mid_Marksman_Teaser.jpg

Our goal with this champ was to create a marksman that would primarily be played mid lane. While champions like Lucian, Corki, and Tristana have seen play mid, none of them feel like they were made specifically for that position, with the traits you often see from champions in that lane—like intentionally-designed roaming patterns and a dueling focus. We felt a marksman designed for mid would both add a unique champion to the roster and could also be pretty appealing to a lot of mid lane assassin and skirmisher players.

Things are looking pretty bleak for Senna and Lucian right now, but maybe some new Sentinels can revive their hope.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_07_Shurima_Streets.jpg

Life Can Be So Vexing
Yes, yes it can be, so can video game development sigh.

Last we chatted, the new mid lane mage was scheduled to release ahead of the marksman. Since then, we’ve decided our gloomy new yordle needed a bit more time in development as we needed to create some new tech to visually sell her source of power. Also, as her gameplay kit developed, she’s moved away from being an artillery mage and is now closer to a classic mage. She still gets annoyed as hell with hyperactive champions dashing all around her, that hasn’t changed one bit. It’s enough to make her get serious and start clobbering all lifeforms full of irritating happiness dashing around her like pesky flies.

Even with the delay, this champ still has a big part to play in Viego’s story, so expect to see her cast a shadow across Runeterra a few months before she finally decides to get out of bed and begrudgingly deal with all the colors on Summoner’s Rift.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_08_Yordle_Tease.jpg

The Many Forms of Udyr
As many of you know, Udyr won the player choice VGU poll earlier this year. Since then we’ve started giving the old spirit walker a huge makeover. We’re still super early in development, so we don’t have quite enough content to fill an entire blog, but we should have one coming in a few months.

In the meantime, we wanted to share some rough sketches Justin “RiotEarp” Albers has been working on to see what’s resonating with all of you.

4_26_2021_ChampRoadmapApril2021Article_09_Udyr_Exploration.jpg

See You on the Other Side
That’s all for today—we should have a lot more to share after we start ramping down Viego's saga. And after going through such a grim story, what else is there to do but take the next leg of the year head on. Get ready for a new marksman (bot lane this time) that will give you an electrifying glimpse into one of Runeterra's most tenacious regions, one that never knows when to quit
Hey all, now that Samira’s made her stylish debut, we wanted to take a minute to talk about some of our upcoming plans for new champions and VGUs.

In the beginning of the year, we said we wanted to bring more champions from League’s lore to Summoner’s Rift. Creating champions like this helps make the world of Runeterra feel more alive and allows us to tell really compelling stories around the new champs.

We recently did this with Yone, as we brought him out of the pages of Yasuo’s story and into battle alongside (and against) him during the Spirit Blossom event. Yone's return from the grave helped us set new stakes for Ionia, where the azakana are growing in numbers and will continue to be a problem for the region. Players seemed to really enjoy the extra depth Yone's release added to Yasuo's character as well, especially in “Kin of the Stained Blade.”02_Yone.jpg
Because the reception for Yone and Senna have been so positive, we're going to bring another character players have been longing for to the Rift next year.

Another strategy we discussed in our previous Champion Roadmap was our renewed focus on releasing more new champions. Specifically, we said that our goal was to release six new champions per year: One for each position with the exception of mid lane, where we’d target two (one mage and one melee champ). So far in 2020, we’ve released…

A top laner (Sett)
A jungler (Lillia)
A melee mid laner (Yone)
And an ADC (Samira)
This leaves us with a mid-lane mage and a support to round out the year, which I’m happy to say we’re on track for (but as always, things could change). Also, just because we are focusing on new champions doesn’t mean we have forgotten about VGUs. Dr. Mundo’s update is in full swing right now, as is early work on another unannounced champion update.

With that, let’s jump into the mage and support that’ll round out our champions for 2020, as well as an update on Mundo’s VGU and a little sneak peak on the first champion to set sail in 2021.03_Boat.jpg
Become a Fan
I don’t know about all of you, but I have become a fan of so many champions over the years. Have any of you become so charmed by a champion, that you hang posters on your walls, play their theme on repeat, and lock them in every game you possibly can?

Regardless of your current level of fandom, when Piltover and Zaun’s new rising star finally hits the promenade, she might convert you into an instant mega-fan. I hope you’re all ready to crowd around her and cheer along!
04_Mage_Teaser.jpg
WANTED! MUST BE ALIVE FOR REWARD!
Attention!

The empire will pay greatly for the capture and detainment of this runaway criminal. The fugitive is EXTREMELY dangerous, so approach with caution. They are heavily armored and will attack if even slightly provoked. Wear light armor, as reports show warbands have been killed with their heavy gear twisted and shattered, littering the ground around them. The criminal’s been known to mount a quick retreat when cornered, so bringing a highly-trained team is recommended.

If you somehow manage to detain this criminal, please bring them directly to the closest empire building marked with a black rose.

05_Support_Teaser.jpg
Twisted Obsession
What would you do for love?

Would you go to the ends of the world?

Would you give up everything you have?

Would you go to the brink of life and death?

If you are willing to do anything, you may just find yourself falling for our romantic new jungle skirmisher, who will be twisting hearts and possessing minds early next year.
06_Jungler_Teaser.jpg
I Need a Doctor?!
We’ve made a lot of progress on Mundo’s VGU since the last time we shared an update, which covered his early ideation phase. At the time, most of what we shared was exploratory, but we did know three things we wanted from his update:

We want to make big upgrades to Mundo’s visuals and theme, not only to look better, but to better fit in with how League's visual style has evolved.
We want to make significant gameplay improvements to Mundo’s kit, while maintaining his super-tank regeneration and the ability to chuck cleavers.
We want to keep Mundo a very simple champion.
After the post went out, we read a lot of your feedback about what was or wasn’t exciting from our early explorations. We saw that a lot of people wanted us to keep Mundo as a fun and comical champion, so that’s definitely something we plan on keeping. We really want Mundo to embody a kind of “dark comical” theme that we feel would be very unique to League’s roster of champions.

On the gameplay side, we tried a lot of different things, but the one that really stuck was pushing further on the feeling that Mundo goes wherever he pleases. We’ve decided to move forward with making Mundo an extremely difficult champion to lock down. This direction requires us to give him meaningful trade-offs—having CC-immunity in any form is a powerful tool—so Mundo will remain a champion with no hard CC or mobility on his kit.

Overall, we’re going to keep Mundo’s gameplay pretty similar. There will of course be tweaks and changes to many of his abilities to add more skill expression, satisfaction, and counterplay, but he will still feel like the same old Mundo we’ve grown to love.

We’ll dive much deeper into our progress on Mundo in his next /dev blog, which you can expect sometime next year. In the meantime, I’ll leave you with his latest concept art.
07_Mundo_Concepts.jpg
Until Next Time
One last thing before we go. Earlier this year, we said we were going to hold another poll where you’d get to vote for League’s next VGU. We ran into some problems getting the poll up and running on the new website, and we had to get started on the next VGU before we were able to fix them. The champion we chose wasn’t on the previous voting poll, but I think it’s one that many players will be excited about when we announce it (which we hope to do in the next Roadmap). We’re still planning on doing another VGU poll, which will happen next year and be for the following champion update.

With that, I hope you’re all as excited as I am for some of the up and coming champions. We’ll be back at the start of next year to share our plans for 2021. In the meantime… See you all on the Rift!
Adapting Our Approach
As I mentioned in the Season Start Champion video, we’ll be focusing on new champions for the rest of the year. Back in 2018, there were a lot of champs in need of a full-scale rework, so we put our resources into bringing champs like Swain, Irelia, and Nunu up to modern standards. Since 2018, we’ve updated 12 champions, and we feel like we’ve gotten through most of the champs in critical need of a VGU. Of course, there are still champs that can be improved, but the amount they can be improved has lessened. This has caused us to rethink our overall champion strategy.

02_Nunu_Willump.jpg
For one, we thought more about the role of new champions and what their main purpose is in League. The main reason we continue to release new champs is to add new gameplay for people to engage with. For many players, new champions are like mini-expansions packs for League, and we always see huge playrates on new champions when they’re first released. Even if you don’t pick them up yourself, seeing new champs in your games adds more to learn and master.

That being said, we think it’s important for all players to get at least one new champion in their role a year, that way they have something new to try and can maybe even add a new champ to their rotation (... or find a new main). With that goal, we felt it was important to try and release at least six new champions a year—one for each position, with the exception of mid lane, where we’re targeting two. Mid lane is the most popular role in League, and mid lane assassin players are looking for something quite different than mid lane mage players. Since so many people enjoy mages and assassins, we’re aiming to release a champion for both audiences every year.

We may not always hit these goals, as we don’t want to push champions out that don’t meet our quality bar just to hit the target, but it’s what we’re aiming for starting in 2020.

We will also still be working on VGUs, just at a slightly slower cadence, as we see a lot of value in bringing older champions up to modern standards while (hopefully) exciting champion mains. In fact, we’ll be announcing an update for a champion who goes where he pleases later this blog…

And with that, why don’t you pull up a mat as we get right into the next three champions coming this year.

03_Pull_Up_a_Mat.jpg
Dreams of a New Jungler
04_Forest.jpg
Jungle mains have been longing for a new champion for a while now, and it just so happens that we’ve got one blooming soon! In the last update, I told you we couldn’t decide if we wanted the new jungler to be an assassin or a skirmisher, but the dream dust has settled and behind it was a mid-range skirmisher, frolicking in and out of the fray.

Eep! I shouldn’t say anything else… But maybe, possibly... We can find her instead! Be very quiet, though, she can be quite shy, and if we startle her she may prance into action, darting off as our vision starts to get blurry… and… hazy. The world around us is becoming slow… NO! We have to stay awake! But… it’s so warm and safe… Must… sleep…

ZzZzZzZzZz...

05_Jungler_Tease.gif
An Out of Body Experience
AH—! D-did I fall asleep? Am I dreaming? The last thing I remember was purple dust and the sound of someone skittering away.

Where am I? I feel a presence inside me—something dark yet dormant. Something I subdued. Is that masked figure in the distance... me?

I’m holding two weapons. I recognize one of them, and the presence inside me recognizes the other. I temper my rising anger into something cold, like the steel in hand. Suddenly I feel a spiritual tug from the direction of the masked figure—from me? The tug becomes a yank, and I feel my subconscious pulled toward my body, accelerating until—

I slam into it!

06_Assassin_Tease.jpg
Whoa—what just happened? I feel like I just stepped out of another world. Or perhaps a tale told long ago? Now that I’m back, let’s get back to the roadmap.

After the jungler we’ll be releasing a new assassin. You’ll get a chance to form bonds with both champions in a big summer event coming next month.

07_Summer_Event.jpg
Calling All Thrill-Seekers
Do you like to laugh in the face of danger? Do you enjoy stringing together abilities, creating stylish new combos? Does the idea of diving straight into the fray, firing a whirlwind of blades and bullets, then hopping back out with a sliver of health excite you?

08_Marksman_Tease.gif
If you answered yes to any of these questions, then we may be releasing just the champion for you. A new marksman, dressed to slay, coming later this year.

A VGU That Goes Where It Pleases
The next champion update will be none other than the Madman of Zaun himself, Dr. Mundo. This project is very early in development and is scheduled for 2021, so expect to see a few more new champs in between the marksmen and Mundo.

The reason we’re sharing so early is because we saw a strong positive reaction from players when we did the /dev blogs for Fiddlesticks and Volibear, so it’s something we want to do for Mundo as well. We aren’t going into any more detail on Mundo’s VGU here, as we'll be releasing a full post next week that’ll cover the super early exploration phase for his gameplay, narrative, and art.

09_Yes_Mundo_Can.jpg
Outro
That about covers everything we wanted to talk about today. Sorry we weren’t able to find the new jungler—what a weird experience that was. I'll make sure to keep my wits about me for the roadmap later this year, where we’ll talk about two of the other new champs in development. Tune in next time to hear about a sensational mage and an ultra-heavy tank support, which will round out our goal for releasing one new champ per role each year.

We’re also still planning to hold another “Choose a VGU” poll since the last one went so well; expect to see that either later this year or very early next year.

We can’t wait to get all these champions out of our hands and into yours. Until next time!
Hey all, with League’s 10-year anniversary underway, it seems like the perfect time to talk about the new champions and VGUs we’re working on. Let’s jump right in, starting with the champion we just previewed: Senna.


The Redeemer
As many of you recently saw, the next new champion will be Senna, a very non-traditional marksman coming to League soon. When we were creating Senna, we knew she should be a marksman, but we also thought she should be able to lane with Lucian. We felt there was a great opportunity for them to work together, with Lucian up close and personal and Senna backing him from a distance with a massive Relic Cannon. With this in mind, we went about building a supportive marksman with a blend of damage and utility.

To go along with Senna, we’ll be adding new voice lines for Lucian as we progress his character and story with Senna’s return. Make sure to tune in during the second day of Worlds Quarterfinals for the first look at Senna’s gameplay, and check out her Champion Insights the following day for a behind-the-scenes look at her development!

02_Senna_Concept_Art
And the Faithful Shall Be Rewarded
What will you sacrifice for your faith? Only the devout will master the next champion we have prepared for you. A new marksman, raised since birth with only one purpose: to protect the faith from those who stand in the sun. Constantly training, mastering diverse weapons of faith, swapping through them like cycles of the moon with nothing but that one lone voice, pushing, comforting… loving? If you are up to the challenge, you too must train hard and achieve zen-like focus in order to reap the rewards.

So I ask again: What will you sacrifice for your faith?

03_Teaser_One
Welcome to the Underground
Out of the Ionian underground comes a smokin’ hot new juggernaut. It’s been a while since we made a more straightforward, accessible juggernaut, with Darius being the last, so we felt it was time to add something new to that space. This new champion will thrive in the center of a brawl, laughing as they take hit after hit then furiously punching back, releasing all that stored aggression on their enemies’ faces. If you like letting your fists do the talking, getting into the heat of a pit fight, and smashing your opponents’ heads together, this may be just the champion for you.

04_Teaser_Two
An Ancient Evil Begins to Take Form
We’ve made a lot of progress on Fiddlesticks since the last dev blog, using your feedback to iterate on and polish its new visual design. A lot of you were excited about Fiddle being this terrifying thing with a bunch of different voices, so this is something we want to try and make work one way or another for its VO.

Fiddlesticks’ new kit will be centered around the concept of fear, but it’ll include much more than a point-click status effect (which is staying on the kit). Experienced Fiddlesticks players will wreak mental havoc on their victims as they question what is real and what is merely a terrifying effigy. Horror will fill the Rift whenever Fiddle is in the game, and if it finds you before you find it, only death will follow.

05_Fiddlesticks_Concept
A Storm is Brewing
In the last dev blog, I mentioned that we were still exploring directions for Volibear’s gameplay design and hadn’t settled on anything yet. Today I’m happy to say we’ve found an exciting direction for Voli’s update, one that preserves Volibear’s current gameplay identity while also giving him some unique new tools. We moved away from the permanent unstoppability idea and have instead been testing a new direction, making Volibear feel more like a god of storms, bringing thunder down on his enemies and the structures they hide behind.

06_Volibear_Concept
One common thing we heard—especially from Volibear mains—was that the more grotesque-horror visual designs felt like they strayed too far from live Volibear, so we’ve refocused our explorations on versions that feel more true to current Voli. The horrific version of Volibear from recent lore was seen through Udyr’s perspective, where Volibear was called forth by the most extreme Ursine. For his VGU, we want to show Volibear as he is to himself, in his most prime, original, godlike form.

A Jungler and a Solo Laner
That’s about all we have to share for today. There are a few other champions in very early stages of production, including a whimsical new jungler as well as an edgy solo-lane melee carry. More on them in the next Roadmap though, which will come sometime next year.

In the nearer future (like a couple months), look out for another dev blog on Fiddlesticks and Volibear, where we’ll share more work-in-progress visuals like the proxy model and idle animation below. And with that, happy 10 years of League!
In patch 12.10, we will be introducing some changes to increase the durability of every champion on the roster to reduce the overall amount of damage in League. We’re looking to accomplish this by increasing the following stats:

Base Health
Health per Level
Armor per Level
Magic Resist per Level
This increase in durability also necessitates some adjustments to the surrounding systems of the rift to make sure they are correctly tuned, relative to the increased durability. These include nerfs to sustain, and buffs to Baron, Turrets, and mana regeneration. Now, before we dive deeper into what to expect with this update, let’s look at how we got here and why we believe higher durability is good for the game.

Why more durability?
Devs and players agree—there is currently too much damage in League. While tons of damage can be fun and exciting, we believe that increasing champions’ defensive stats will be beneficial for letting players showcase their skill by giving them more opportunities for counterplay and to live out their high moments.

Before talking about the changes themselves, we want to reassure you that we aren’t trying to create a meta where there are no kills by 15 minutes into the game. There are actually quite a few things we like in the current state of League. Some pros of lower survivability include: A sizable amount of players enjoy high-kill games, it leads to more exciting pro metas, and it rewards good play with kills which is much more satisfying than just forcing someone to recall. That said, lower survivability also has downsides which outweigh these positives.

Lower survivability leads to game states where squishy carries and supports in particular struggle to have an impact in the game due to being one-shot with low counterplay in too many situations. When you’re dying so fast that it’s difficult to tell what killed you, game clarity takes a hit which leads to frustrating experiences.

On Live, combat can sometimes be overly rewarding when high threat champions only need to use a portion of their kit to secure a kill. Ideally, players should have to play around their champion’s key skill test to hit those satisfying combos (eg. Zed’s triple shuriken). Long term, we think poor skill tests make playing your favorite champions a lot less satisfying.

Another issue we’ve noticed with lower survivability is that it creates abrupt and confusing teamfights and skirmishes when champions die so quickly. Shorter teamfights are hard to follow, limit the opportunities players have to make smart decisions/showcase their skills, and ultimately aren’t living up to the epic clash of legends fantasy team fights should be delivering on. Since teamfights are one of the most enjoyable parts of League, we want to create more opportunities for players to engage in those high energy, game-changing 5v5’s.

Patch 12.10–What to Expect
We still think that League is at its best with fast-paced, high intensity combat; but now that it’s gone too far in that direction we need to rein it back a bit. We don’t think any particular champions, items, or systems are out of line (even if they may have contributed to the root cause), which is why we’re increasing durability across the board, rather than removing or toning down specific offensive sources.

Here is a TLDR of what you can expect in your games with the Champion Durability Update:

Players will feel that their champions are dealing and taking less damage
Burst champions must commit more resources or be further ahead to get quick kills
Bigger windows of opportunity for counterplay
Skirmishes and teamfights will last longer
Champion durability isn’t the only thing we’ll be adjusting. Increasing overall durability has a lot of knock-on effects. Notably, sustain becomes more powerful in preventing champions from reaching burst thresholds, so we are reducing sustain across the board. Other side-effects we're looking at include map elements (Baron and Turrets) doing less damage, champions running out of mana more frequently, and scaling champions staying alive more often to reach their win conditions. We’ve proactively adjusted some of the more well-known variables over the past few patches and will continue to do so post-launch as they emerge.

One subset of champions that will certainly be affected are burst damage dealers (not necessarily just assassins). We believe that champions should still be able to be burst killed, especially when out of position or playing poorly. High burst champions doing reasonably well should still be able to 100-0 squishy champions with their full kit if they succeeded in passing their core skill test. If these champions are extremely ahead (multiple levels and/or thousands of gold), then we think it is reasonable for them to kill a champion with only part of their kit, only because they have passed their core skill test many times. For any given amount of lead, burst champs will have to press one or two more buttons than before in order to secure 100-0 kills. Our intent with this update isn’t to overnerf burst champions, so we’ll be keeping an eye on them to make sure they land in a healthy spot.

Monitoring the Launch
With these sweeping durability changes coming to the rift, we’ll be keeping a very close eye on how they play out. We don’t want to move to a meta where tanks become unkillable, burst champions are rendered obsolete, or where Pro Play becomes a snoozefest, so we’ll be monitoring role and champion balance extra carefully over the next few weeks. Our goal is to hit a sweet spot where all classes are viable, tactical combat has good pacing allowing for moments of skill expression, and the balance of snowballing and scaling are in healthy states.

We’re excited to launch these changes in patch 12.10 and looking forward to seeing them come to life. Thanks for continuing to play with us and raising your concerns. Looking forward to seeing you on the rift!
Hi everyone! Riot GalaxySmash here to talk with you about GAT, or the Game Analysis Team. League is pretty complex to say the least, and with new ideas always in the making, sometimes it's not easy to anticipate all the ways a single change might affect the entire game. That's where GAT comes in! Our job is basically to help designers understand how their new content fits in with the rest of League so that it ships as closely to our goals as possible. We're like the Yuumi on everyone's shoulders, zooming around and supporting them so they can achieve their design goals. So what does that actually look like? Well, I'm glad you asked! I’ll explain by busting some of GAT’s most common myths!

Myth #1: GAT's job is to test the live game
While it's true that GAT does a lot of things to validate existing content, we actually spend most of our time during the design phase, before something goes live! For example, with Crown of the Shattered Queen, as soon as we understood the designer's main goal to create a “specifically defensive mage mythic”, we suggested additional ones like making it "purchasable by a wide variety of users'', and ensuring that it doesn’t “nullify the mage class’s core weakness of being squishy". Having these recommendations early on helped the designer prototype with more specific goals in mind. Later, once they had an early design, we generated test cases to help them understand risks and outputs of the item in ways they might not have anticipated before, like Crown potentially replacing Everfrost as the go-to defensive mage mythic rather than the two occupying different niches. It's a very collaborative and iterative process, and we often go through many cycles before something ever ships!


Myth #2: GAT only does playtesting
Although playtesting is a huge and essential part of our work, we use many other tools to analyze game content as well! This is especially important since playtesting has limitations. There are only so many hours in a day to run playtests, and sometimes test cases conflict and can't be done in the same game (like if there are two new junglers to test but we don't want to play them against each other). One of the most tried and true methods we use instead is to crunch some numbers. For example, when a designer works on a new champion, we run the math on their counterparts in live so we can tune them to be relatively similar in power. Like when Qiyana was in development, we looked at existing assassins' total damage outputs to get a ballpark estimate, but we also took into consideration how champions like Zed have single-target burst combos whereas Qiyana's would be mostly AoE. We use spreadsheets (lots and lots of spreadsheets) to compare and contextualize all the data, and then combine it with other forms of more qualitative feedback from playtesting and theorycrafting to provide holistic analysis.


Myth #3. You have to be Masters or higher to join GAT
You might have also heard that many of GAT's members are highly ranked in League, and it's true, but it's not a hard requirement for the job! The reason we have so many Masters or higher players on the team today is that the skills we need for the job are usually things you develop from playing League a lot, such as a deep understanding of past and present metas, the ability to play different roles really well, and how quickly you can synthesize lots of game information at once. Another reason is that, many times, the outlier mechanics or optimizations we need to test are ones that highly skilled players are more likely to take advantage of. And in addition to individual depth of knowledge, we also try to also make sure that our team encompasses a broad set of playstyles and experiences. For example, some of us have our strengths in macro decision-making around the map, while others are more expert in drafting and creating team compositions. Together, we make a cohesive Game Analysis Team and cover as many scenarios as we can!

Hopefully that clears up a lot of the mystery around GAT! Just as our name implies, we're a team that does game analysis, and we have a lot of tools to help us do that effectively. And while our job is to support our designers early on, we can't say we're perfect; it's also thanks to players like you who provide awesome feedback and help League of Legends continue to evolve and grow.

What are some ways you'd analyze new game content? We'd love to hear your ideas! See ya on the Rift :D
Howdy folks, Barackprobama here to give you another peek into the Challenges system that will be gracing your monitors in a few patches. As a reminder, Challenges is a new system in League that rewards you for all the impressive activities you participate in and out of game, beyond the ranked system. We think that every game, win or lose, has something worth celebrating! Maybe you pulled off some sick early game jungle invades, maybe you finally hit mastery level 5 on your tenth assassin, or maybe you teamed up with some friends and rocked all Freljord champions because Summoner’s Rift is a mode best served cold. League is about much more than just winning and losing and that is what we want to celebrate with Challenges.

Interested in learning more about everything challenges has to offer? Then check out this article.

PBE Progress
Over the course of development and testing on PBE we received an absolutely bonkers amount of feedback from you all on Challenges that led to lots of level-ups. Some of these were usability improvements, like updates to the way Challenges were grouped and sorted or changes to the way the end of game display showed overflows. Others were system changes, like how we greatly simplified the relationship between category and crystal progression. Still others were visual language updates, like increasing the differentiation between ranks (we heard you tell us that Gold should look less like Bronze) or stronger fantasy around certain tokens.

Your feedback has been invaluable and I wanted to once again thank you all for helping make this the best product it can be.

PBE testing will continue up until launch, so if you haven’t had a chance to dig in and provide feedback, you still have a chance-so let us know!

Why Personalization?
One of the important lessons we’ve learned from Ranked is that players enjoy having the ability to showcase their accomplishments. We believe that Challenges will help tell a story of your League experience and your journey to be the very best that no one ever was.

That’s how we ended up with the crystal and its ranks, as a broad representation of just how much you’ve accomplished within Challenges. In addition, tokens and titles allow you to showcase specific things you might be particularly proud of. You can use these new tools to craft your unique identity. So while your crystal may take some serious investment to get to higher levels, there's no reason you can’t share that you’ve won a heapload of games without dying in the meantime.

Here’s a list of a few fun challenges (and titles that you can earn by completing them) that we’re really excited about:

Pop Goes the Poro: Cause a Poro to explode in ARAM and earn the title “Poroyalty”
Give ‘em Shell, Shelly: Take Turrets with Rift Herald (aka Shelly)
Icon of the Rift: Obtain 100 Summoner Icons and you can become “Iconic”
Stacks on Stacks on Stacks: Fully stack Mejai’s Soulstealer before 20 minutes
Superior Supporting: Finish your support quest faster than the opponents
Nashor Slayer: Kill Baron Nashor solo and you can be the “Baron”
Aggressive Positioning: Get multikills after flashing toward an enemy and rock the “Flashy” title
Solo Carry: Deal 40%+ of your team’s champion damage in an ARAM
I don’t want to spoil them all for you now, but we’ll be dropping hints on more Challenges leading up to their release!

Challenges when?
Challenges, including over 300 individual challenges, almost 2700 tokens, and over 100 titles, are set to ship worldwide on patch 12.9, just in time for MSI! We’re really excited to see you sink your teeth into the system and can’t wait to progress alongside you all.
Hi everyone, Riot Phroxzon here. Comebacks have been a pretty spicy topic throughout League’s history and with the addition of Objective Bounties, now seemed like a good opportunity to talk about how we approach designing them.

Why do comeback mechanics exist?
Comeback mechanics allow losing teams an achievable but difficult path back into the game. When tuned correctly, they help to balance snowballing, but it's a very fine line. Leaning too hard in either direction can lead to game states where early leads don’t matter (i.e. when comeback mechanics are too strong), or where comebacks never get to happen (i.e. when snowballing mechanics are too strong). The latter also leads to scaling comps feeling weak, which is relevant but not exactly the same thing.

They also allow winning teams to enjoy feeling more powerful with larger leads. This one's a little counterintuitive, but here's how it works: If we didn't have potent comeback mechanics, we would have to heavily water down snowballing for scaling champs to even get a chance, and you'd never get to experience those early Draven pop-off games. Comeback mechanics also incentivize winning teams to use their leads—wisely. So when your fed Lee Sin gets greedy and starts counterjungling without vision, he'll realize that he probably deserved it when the enemy team cashes in on his 1000g shutdown. (We've all been there once.) On the flip side of the coin, if he sits back and does nothing with his lead, he leaves the door wide open for the enemy team to make plays and catch up.

What makes a good comeback mechanic?
The key is that comebacks have to be earned. You're playing from a disadvantaged state with a 40% or less chance of winning, losing most encounters, and struggling with strategic map movements. A comeback supported by the game’s mechanics needs to feel reasonable to the winning team, despite not being in their favor. It should result from the winning team's misplays (or lack of good plays), and it should never feel like the losing team was granted a free win.

Another way we think about this is that being in a winning state doesn't necessarily mean that you will win. A winning team has earned an advantage, not a victory—they have to play well in order to claim that W. Conversely, losing doesn't mean you will lose. Either way, a good comeback mechanic rewards teams that play well and punishes those that play poorly.

What's top of mind for comeback mechanics right now?
Given that comeback mechanics balance snowballing, we know that it sometimes feels like you're being punished for winning. However, teams that are significantly ahead usually have a lot of agency to prevent or mitigate bounty claims. To claim a champion bounty while behind, you have to kill someone who is significantly stronger than you. With objective bounties, the winning team probably has more vision and map control, plus better items and higher levels to boot. However, fairness in practice matters more than fairness in theory, so we're monitoring and adjusting the system accordingly.

In addition to tuning existing bounties, here are some other things we’re thinking about to strike that balance:

Edge cases. If a player is 0/4 and then gets 2 kills, should they have a bounty? What about if a player is 8/0 but solo carrying their team? Or how about if a team is 4v5 yet winning hard—should Objective Bounties still activate?
Team comps. For example, a full scaling team that’s down 3k against a full early game team could actually be even (or ahead!) and still activate Objective Bounties in their favor today.
Specific champion qualities. It’s much harder to claim a slippery 8/0 Ekko bounty than one on an 8/0 immobile and squishy Ashe. At the same time, Ekko has to risk himself more in order to leverage his lead, whereas Ashe can drive a reliable victory with enough peel (... which also requires a lot of teamwork).
Clearer visualization. In particular, XP leads and dragons are a lot more impactful to bounty activations than they currently seem, whereas players tend to over-prioritize gold leads when determining whether bounties look fair or not.
Comebacks and snowballing mechanics have huge implications on every facet of the game, so we're being extra careful adjusting them as the data becomes clearer. We hear you and are working to make the system understandable, intuitive, and—most importantly—function the way players expect. Thanks as always for playing, and hope to meet you on the Rift. Peace.
OK, we know what you're thinking. Why the heck are we giving fighters EVEN MORE AD next patch?!

The gist of it is that ever since the Preseason 2021 item overhaul, light fighters like Irelia and Xin Zhao have felt a lot more like unpunishable tanky murderers than they really should. When these kinda champs have too much of their power in health and defensive-skewed items, their high-risk high-reward playstyles get washed out and become reliable/low-risk yet still high-reward. They basically become frontliners that can singlehandedly murder you, rather than risky champions who have to be swift and smart going into fights in order to get their sweet, sweet payoffs. At that point, why would you pick Nasus when Riven feels just as durable and has better damage and mobility? (Okay, we're exaggerating a bit here, but you get what we mean.)

An interesting issue in the fighter item space is that a lot of the items are pretty similar, yet the champions and classes they’re meant for are quite diverse. What do Illaoi (a juggernaut), Fiora (a light fighter), and Vi (a diver) all have in common? Honestly, not very much, but they use a lot of the same items and are all called fighters. Last season, that problem got even worse as they all consolidated around a handful of powerful items like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage. Sterak’s made pretty much all fighters good at teamfighting, while Goredrinker did the same plus gave them all huge heals at low health. These subclasses started blending together rather than distinguishing themselves as three separate archetypes. Not all fighters are supposed to be good at teamfighting, and when Sterak’s is making them that way, it can be kinda f-... messed up.

To de-homogenize the system, we considered adding new items tailored specifically for each class. We did a bunch of early explorations for new fighter items and even tried overhauling some existing underused ones. (There were some wild ideas like making Silvermere something like the old Sword of the Occult, and a killed-in-the-box version of Maw that would grant invulnerability). These explorations were fun and interesting, but we came to realize that this was like building on a shaky foundation. Before adding anything, we needed to make sure that no item in the current system is a default item of EVERY subclass. Each subclass also needs to have exciting items that reasonably cover their needs. And last but not least, for the long-term health of the fighter class at large, we had to ensure that no items break down their subclass's weaknesses. Once we have those fundamentals down, maybe then we can consider adding new items if necessary.

With all of this in mind, we determined that the single most impactful thing we could do was to push Sterak's out of being a default option for every fighter everywhere. It should be a strong anti-burst teamfight option for juggernauts like Darius, whereas champions like Viego or Master Yi shouldn't get access to that without some serious tradeoffs. Just like how we weren’t comfortable with juggernauts getting a dash using ol’ dashy Stridebreaker, we aren’t comfortable giving light fighters the durability they’re currently getting with Sterak’s Gage.

These kinds of characters do need some defensive options though, and for that, we're moving Death’s Dance back toward hybrid physical/magic damage reduction. The reason we chose Death’s Dance is that the item requires fighters to actually deal damage in order to survive the bleed. They can’t just sit on the front line and soak damage, happy as a clam, leisurely waiting for the right opportunity to go in; unless they fight with finesse, Death's Dance won't save them.

Outside of that, we’ve shifted some other item stats around to make sure that light fighters don’t incidentally stack health just by building their damage items. Risky characters should be building offensive tools that open them to death when they play poorly, so those items have to be powerful and tempting to purchase. Not every fighter should be able to use every fighter item in the shop, but every fighter should feel like they have items built for them.

I really do want to note that we’ll be watching this closely and following up on outlier champions or items (whether too strong or too weak!). We’re also keeping an eye on other classes who might poach these items as well. Some overlap is fine, but when a choice item overrides one of their class weaknesses, that’s also no good. We still think there are more spots in the system that need work, but we’d rather we take a good step toward making the current system better than wait until we can change it all at once.
Hi everyone, this is Phroxzon, the Summoners Rift Team’s new design lead! I’m a long time member of the team and have worked on game balance and the last four preseasons. I’m here to write about how Preseason 2022 content has landed.

Chemtech & Hextech Dragons
Let's start off with the new Elemental Rifts and Souls. We’re seeing positive sentiment and are generally happy with the Hextech Rift, but we hear your frustrations around the Chemtech Rift, which we knew would be contentious with its stealth mechanic. In testing, we found that it had great potential for fun and unique high moments like flanking from the fog as a team, but those also came with frustrating tradeoffs. In particular, it can be hard to contest your own jungle and adapt to new default warding positions on the edges of the Chemtech Fog zones. We've added some Scryer's Blooms to defensive locations in the terrain to help address this in patch 12.1 and will keep an eye on how that pans out.

We’ve also observed high levels of frustration around the Chemtech Soul, which may also contribute to negative sentiment towards the terrain. We’re with you that trying to facecheck a team that has Chemtech Soul in the Chemtech Fog is difficult as you’re usually at both a combat strength & vision deficit. We also agree that the Chemtech Soul itself, regardless of the mechanics, is overpowered right now, so we're tapping down on its numbers in 12.2. If we find that the high moments still don't manifest after both of these changes, yet they continue to frustrate players, we're very open to higher scope changes, including reworks.

Objective Bounties
Next is Objective Bounties. On launch, we agreed they were turning on too early when the game was still relatively close, and falling off too late after the losing team had already clawed back some of the deficit. They also had deactivation timers that would reset anytime an objective with an active bounty was engaged, which led to some pretty extreme gold swings when teams chain-secured objectives without letting the bounty status reset. Thanks to all your feedback and game data, we were able to stabilize the system relatively quickly. (The first hour that the feature went live gave us more information than we could produce with internal testing in 200 years!)

We’ve also received feedback that Objective Bounties can feel like they punish a team for winning. While winning teams are, by definition, disfavored by comeback mechanics, we don’t believe it’s guaranteed that a losing team will claim an objective bounty. With post-launch balancing in place, the current dynamic seems appropriate: If the winning team plays better, they keep bounty claims to a minimum, and If the losing team plays better, they claim the bounties and use them as a springboard to get back into the game. While we’re still fine tuning the balance here, we’re optimistic about this feature for the long term: It increases the number of available strategies when behind, rewards creativity with macro movements, and encourages the losing team to rally around a plan rather than give up.

Runes, Summoner Spells, & Items
We also changed some runes since preseason launched. Lethal Tempo has, despite the 11.24 nerfs, still skewed some melee power curves too heavily towards early game, so patch 12.2 will give it a more scaling profile. Glacial Augment has landed in a pretty good spot for melee users, but we hope to see a few more enchanters pick it over Aery as a more defensive and higher utility option in the long term. First Strike has also landed well for both carries and assassins; it's competing well with other keystones and has opened up a different playstyle for them.

While not part of preseason's initial updates, 12.1's Teleport changes have landed pretty well. We’re seeing relatively minimal changes in winrates & pickrates from early data while still meeting goals for reducing its influence on early skirmishes.

Finally, let’s talk items. Most of the item changes have landed relatively well, with only a few post-launch adjustments needed and with no huge balance outliers. We’re generally happy with them, but as always, we're all ears for your thoughts and will continue to finetune them as needed.

We couldn't have made Preseason 2022 what it is without all your feedback. Please continue to send us your thoughts, ideas, and feedback! Thanks for playing, and I’ll see you on the Rift. Good luck for Season 12! this is Riot Axes here to talk about some upcoming gameplay plans. Preseason 2022 is looking pretty stable and, with the year coming to an end, it’s a good time to talk about a few things on our minds for next year.
 
Short-Term Plans
Most of Preseason 2022 seems to have landed well, with the Hextech Drake in good shape and Objective Bounties looking solid after some adjustments. However, we’re still actively monitoring the Chemtech Drake's terrain and Dragon Soul. Based on our observations, we're shipping a small change in patch 12.1, adding some Scryer’s Bloom plants in locations that should improve the defending team's experience in their own jungle. We knew that the Chemtech Drake would be a spicy addition, and we’ll continue to keep an eye on it.

There are several other areas of the game we're looking at, too. In 12.1, the Teleport Summoner Spell will change significantly. Before 14 minutes, the new Teleport has a longer cooldown and can only target towers. After 14 minutes, its cooldown is reduced and it can target the same objects as it can on live today. In Season 2021, Teleport had way too much early game influence on the outcomes of other lanes. Our goal is to limit that influence and eliminate some problematic edge cases while retaining its ability to stabilize losing lanes, allow mid-to-late game sidelaning, and create opportunities for flanks.

We’re also looking to change some Fighter items. In particular, Sterak’s Gage has become a universal purchase, washing out the differences between bruisers (like Darius or Illaoi) versus light fighters (like Fiora or Irelia). We’re also working on some other items, most likely Maw of Malmortius and Death’s Dance, so that champions moving off Sterak's will have adequate alternatives. We don’t have a ship date for that yet, but it'll definitely be in the first half of 2022.

We're also working on some mid-scope champion adjustments. Our next two projects are Janna and Ahri early in the year, two previously popular champions who have fallen out of favor lately. These will be smaller in scope than the Tahm Kench rework, but still substantial (think Lucian's recent update). This sort of work has gone well so far, so we’re building upon our process for it in the upcoming year, better defining our goals and how we’ll pick targets. We’ll talk more about this in detail soon.

Long-Term Investigations
In the longer term, we’re investigating a couple of larger spaces. To caveat, we're thinking about these spaces very broadly and do not have specific directions for them yet. We're just sharing them so you have an idea of what we're thinking about. We are not promising any particular outcomes.

First off is burst damage. We're analyzing how and when high bursts of damage happen and examining their effects on gameplay. We want to keep the game exciting with high stakes decision-making, but we also want to ensure that fights are reasonably understandable and counterplay is still possible. We're still very early in this investigation, but our current belief is that burst kills happen too quickly and too often. One option we're considering is to reduce damage output under at least a few conditions, most likely in mid-late game against very low defense champions. That's not to say we're deleting assassins or anything—it's a touchy area, and that's why we're taking our time investigating the data. As a friendly reminder, we're not guaranteeing to ship anything in this space yet. Even if we do, the goal isn't to ensure you can never get one-shotted, force a “tank meta”, or any other hyperbolic ideas.

Second, we believe that systems like items and runes provide too much healing and sustain right now. We’ve done some work to address this over the course of 2021, but we’re still meaningfully off from where we want to be. We haven’t settled on the details yet, including whether changes to systemic healing should go out in one large swing or through smaller changes spread out over time. The answer partly depends on what we end up doing with burst damage because the longer it takes to kill champions, the more powerful sustain gets.

That’s it for now! In the future, I’ll generally weigh in on things that are more directional and larger in scope as the new Lead Gameplay Designer. Hope all of you have a happy new year!
Editor's note: While this post isn't about gameplay per se, it does cover how you're rewarded for your time spent playing, as well as your motivations for which modes to play during an event!

Riot Rovient here, letting you know that we’re changing the way points work in League of Legends missions starting with the Debonair event on December 9. This change shouldn't affect your experience much since it's designed to be as close to the current system as possible. Additionally, missions based on specific objectives like "Kill 600 minions" are unchanged.

So what's changing, exactly?
For all League of Legends events moving forward, points will be earned based on how much time you spend playing, rather than how many games you play. We've converted general objectives for some missions based on the average 30 minute PvP Summoner's Rift game.

Weekly Wins Missions: Earn 40 points, Win = 5 points | Loss = 2 points —> Earn 1650 points from playing and winning games. Earn 4 points per minute played, or 6 points per minute played if you win (Rewards 250 Tokens)
Orb Missions: Play 30 games —> Earn 4500 points (Rewards 1 Event Orb + 40 Tokens)
Token Bank Missions: Play a game (Rewards 2-10 Tokens, depending on game mode and win/loss) —> Earn 400 points (Rewards 20 Tokens)
The following changes will also take effect at the same time:

ARAM and Event Game Modes grant 4 points per minute played, or 6 points per minute played if you win. This includes game modes like URF, One for All, and Ultimate Spellbook. In other words, these will grant points at the same rate as PvP SR games.
TFT games will grant 2 points per minute played, or 3 points per minute played if you place in 1st-4th place for your game. While TFT gametime will still count, they shouldn’t be the most efficient way to earn points for League events, so all TFT games will grant them at a 50% rate. We've also added TFT AFK checks for League event missions.
TFT Hyper Roll and Double Up are now eligible for League mission progress! These TFT modes have the same 50% rate as detailed above.
Co-op vs. AI games will grant 1 point per minute played, or 2 points per minute for wins, granting points at 33% of the rate of PvP Summoner's Rift games. This mode still doesn't count toward Token Bank Missions.
Game Mode

Points/Min. Played

Points/Min. Played (Wins)

Summoner's Rift, PvP

4 points

6 points

ARAM

4 points

6 points

Event Game Modes

4 points

6 points

All TFT Modes

2 points (5th-8th place)

3 points (1st-4th place)

Summoner's Rift, Co-op vs. AI

1 point

2 points

Why the change?
In the past, some missions either didn't respect players' time or incentivized playing the shortest games or modes possible.

For example, the mission that required you to "earn 30 points" (where wins = 5 points, losses = 2 points) didn't take your time commitment into consideration at all. That gruelling 45 minute Ranked SR loss? 2 points. That stomp where the enemy team's mid-laner went 0/12 and FF15'd? 5 points. In other words, the points you earned didn't always feel proportional to the time and effort you put into each game.

Other missions also incentivized players to seek the shortest or easiest game modes to earn points quickly. "Play 5 games" encouraged some players to grind TFT or ARAM to farm Tokens as fast as possible. We believe players should never feel like they have to sacrifice their game mode preferences in order to optimize event rewards.

We hear you though, TFT fans—while TFT will still count toward League missions, they will now grant points at a lower rate. This change will shift League event rewards to reward on, well, League games. (And a friendly reminder that TFT has awesome events and battle passes, too!)

Our goal with these changes is to make League missions a more enjoyable, League-focused experience where you get rewarded for playing the games you already love. We’ll be paying close attention to the data during the Debonair event to make adjustments for future events if needed. And, as always, we're listening to your feedback, so let us know what you think!

That’s all for now. I’m excited to get these changes out to you all for an improved missions experience. Good luck out there, players!
!! SPOILERS FOR WORLDS BELOW !!
Tomorrow's the day! The final match for Worlds 2021: MAKE/BREAK is going to be a legendary battle between Damwon Kia (LCK) and Edward Gaming (LPL). There have been so many surprises this year: intense tiebreakers, unexpected outcomes, neverending bloodbaths, and wildcard picks. With Finals front and center (and preseason still marinating on PBE), today's post will be a little less Serious Business than usual.

Here's some data on what we've seen on stage so far and some thoughts from our teams.

A Quick Look at the Meta
Overpowered Champions
One of our balance goals for Worlds is for no champion to get picked/banned in 100% of games. Despite nerfs in 11.16 and 11.18, Lee Sin came closest with 97% presence, but overall, no champ hit the 100% mark this year.

Champion Diversity
Another Worlds balance goal is to ensure high overall champion diversity across the roster. We only count champs with 5% pick/ban presence or higher, as opposed to champs who show up once or twice, to ensure pocket picks aren't misrepresented as viable for any team. Let’s take a look at where we are now going into Finals:

Total champions with 5% presence or more: 62

Top lane: 24

Jungle: 13

Mid: 16

ADC: 10

Support: 13

(For comparison, we've seen 92 champions picked/banned at least once.)

We're seeing an incredibly diverse top lane meta, but some other lanes are barely hitting our minimum target. Notably, ADC only has 10 different 5% champions. Much of this is due to the dominance of Lucian and Miss Fortune, each at 84%. We were excited to see Lucian shift back into bot lane after 11.17 but weren't able to get enough pro play data to get his pro power in the perfect spot. Miss Fortune had no pro presence leading up to Worlds, but we overshot on the power she needed to reach viability and she became more dominant than intended.

We've enjoyed seeing how pro players have innovated so far at Worlds. What are your thoughts on the Worlds meta?

Comments from the team
This last section is a bunch of quotes from members of the Summoner's Rift and Game Analysis Teams! (Yes, we all live in NA.)

"Even though we only had one team make it out of groups and got stomped in quarters, I'm pretty proud of NA. This was technically the most difficult year if we consider that LCK and LPL got extra seeds, yet TL and 100T both went 3-3 in groups and C9 got 3 games with a tiebreaker. Anytime there's more competition between regions, it's fun to watch." —Riot Blizz

"I'm glad we were able to add a couple assassins into the jungle meta with Talon and Qiyana. Even Zed saw a couple games in play-ins, and it was cool to see that completely new picks can rise up for the biggest tournament of the year without being overpowered in solo queue." —RiotMadnessHeroo

"Loved the trading back and forth of novel support picks in DK v T1. Seeing Maokai and Zilean was a breath of fresh air, and reminded us that Beryl and Keria are on top of their game and always innovating." —Riot Sotere

"It was awesome to see DFM pop off. Really exciting to see minor regions ascend. The mega tiebreakers were hype, too." —RiotPhlox

"This has been one of the most exciting Worlds to watch. Really intense games and plenty of comebacks. I think the diversity of champions has been cool to see, especially in jungle and top. Hoping more people pick up Senna as a solid champ into Yuumi (good laning, can get Executioners, and scalability!)" —HydroZenith

"Games have been high octane, and the storylines have also been really fun to follow. Generally, there have been many playstyles that have seemed viable, with top or jungle tanks being a notable exception." —Riot PhRoXzOn (Editor's note: New and reworked tank items coming this preseason!)

"Pocket picks are always exciting, but it's not everyday that a mid laner (Cryin) pulls Annie onto the Worlds stage and instills enough fear to get her banned later in the series!" —Riot Petrie

"There was a lot of skepticism on whether Lucian could be a real bot laner at the highest level. It's an even bigger plus that he brought some enchanters with him, like Lulu and Nami." —Riot Truexy

That's all for now, folks. Tune in tomorrow at 5 AM PDT for the final showdown between DK vs. EDG at LoL Esports!

—The Summoner's Rift Team

PS: The ranked season is ending and preseason is shipping right before the next scheduled Quick Gameplay Thoughts on Nov 19, so we're gonna skip that post. See you in December!
(Don't let the title fool you, this is your biweekly Quick Gameplay Thoughts. We just want to make sure everyone looking for Preseason stuff can find it!)

Preseason 2022 is right around the corner, and we're excited to introduce with it a brand new Inspiration Keystone: First Strike.

A First Look at First Strike
The numbers below were what we shipped to PBE on the 19th. They may already be out of date by the time this article goes live!

Damaging an enemy champion with an attack or ability before they do, or within 0.25s of the start of combat, grants 5 gold and First Strike for 3 seconds, causing your attacks or abilities to deal 12% bonus damage against all champions, and granting (100% melee / 70% Ranged) of bonus damage dealt as gold.

Cooldown: 25-15s (based on level)

First Strike is a new Inspiration Keystone that gives you a huge advantage when you strike an enemy champion first (or, technically, within a very short window time at the start of champion combat). In addition to the extra damage, the extra gold lets you reach item breakpoints at unexpected times. It's designed for players who want more strategic, long-term output from their runes in addition to an immediate mechanical boost.

To get the most out of it, you’ll need to beat your opponents in a test of reactions to get that initial hit and follow up to deal as much damage as possible during the 3-second buff. The rune has been great for artillery champions who can land their spells first, as well as for assassins who do their entire damage output within a short amount of time.

Why the Inspiration Tree?
The Inspiration rune tree is designed to be all about creative tools and rule-bending. Many past Inspiration Keystones haven't really delivered on that and instead became highly specific to particular champion synergies. This didn't really fit the Inspiration theme: You don't feel clever when you're simply doing what's always best for your champion, after all.

You also might notice that we've historically shied away from putting damage options into the Inspiration tree. That's because damage is a fairly standard output—it doesn't really come across as a "rule-bending" optimization. But we're bending our own rules-bending rule a bit here for First Strike because starting combat is a harder decision to make than the choices most of our other damage-focused runes ask of you. Evaluating whether you might initiate a suboptimal fight to ensure First Strike, versus letting an opponent poke it off you and forfeiting the ability to go on the offensive for at least 15 seconds, isn't a straightforward choice. A risk like that needs an equivalent reward, and the increased damage you get is clear and appealing.

We also hope that First Strike will provide value to a broad range of players rather than a specific class. Some will benefit more from the burst damage, others will love it for the gold rewards, and still others will enjoy the intellectual puzzle of figuring out its most strategic use cases. By delivering on multiple angles, we hope to garner appeal to a wider audience.

More Design Thoughts
One concern with First Strike's design is its effects on mindshare. When runes get too hard to track, they risk feeling like minigames that distract you from the "real" game going on. We’ve successfully reduced this in the past by making the rune's early lane interactions less influential (think Fleet Footwork). Because its benefits are granted in gold and percentage damage, much of First Strike's value is deferred until later in the game where getting that first jump on your opponent is crucial, regardless of rune choice.

We also incorporated our learnings from Kleptomancy, which was frustrating for enemy laners who would get poked to death with little opportunity to fight back. Champions who remained loyal to Kleptomancy only did so if they could benefit from it without taking any damage in return, effectively getting to spin the consumables roulette for free every 2 seconds. First Strike not only forces you to engage but also encourages you to commit to your engagements to get any real benefit, especially with its much longer cooldown. It'll give Ezreal a taste of that "Lee Syndrome" when he lands his W - Essence Flux rather than passively poking away with his Q - Mystic Shot the entire time.

Removing Prototype: Omnistone
With the introduction of First Strike, we’re also removing Prototype: Omnistone, which never really found its place in most players’ hearts. Its rules and optimizations were too complex and tinkering with it any further risked making it even harder to master. This left us in a tough spot where we couldn’t safely buff it out of fear that it would become a standard in Pro play. While Prototype: Omnistone was a decent option for champions who didn't really love any one particular Keystone, over time, most have discovered at least a couple that suit them best. And for players who want to opt out of Keystones altogether, Unsealed Spellbook provides extra access to Summoner Spells, allowing users to spend their Runes power budget in a different system entirely.

From the Summoner’s Rift Team, we hope you enjoy this sneak peek into First Strike and the other Preseason 2022 content we've announced this week. There's plenty more in store, and we're constantly monitoring the current state of the game and listening to your feedback to make improvements this preseason and beyond.
Hey all! I’m here to talk to you about the Game Analysis Team (formerly called the playtest team)! We work with the gameplay devs and our role is to understand how players might utilize new content—think champions, items, runes, etc.— and how each change might impact League holistically. I often get asked the question, "Oh, so you just get paid to play games all day?". While playing the game is certainly a big part of the job, what we really do is analyze gameplay, and playtesting is just one of many tools we use (hence the new name). If you care about how we discover the impact of content before we ship it, this is the post for you!

What if, for example, Prowler’s Claw’s active was a blink instead of a dash? Well, early on in development it actually was, and our task was to predict how players might use it months after it shipped. Here’s what that process looked like:

Theorycrafting

First, we thought about which champs would be most oppressive with Prowler's Claw. Pyke immediately came to mind since he could combo the blink active with his E, guaranteeing a stun with little counterplay on a relatively short cooldown.
Playtest

Next, we tried this out in game to see how powerful it would be. We put our resident Challenger tier Pyke player to the test and saw what he could do. (The average rank of the team is somewhere around Diamond 2).
Analysis

After seeing Prowler's Claw in action, we watched game replays and identified moments that showcased its impact, which resulted in multiple scenarios like this:
Deliver Feedback

Finally, we presented our findings to the original designer and discussed the implications. We decided that this combo of abilities removed the counterplay to Pyke’s E too easily without enough drawbacks. (Flash for example at least has a longer cooldown). It also made tracking the movement of the Prowler’s Claw user more difficult, and we predicted that higher skilled players would be much more likely to succeed with this item than the rest of the playerbase. Pyke is just of example of a possible Prowler’s Claw abuser—you could imagine how the blink could be used in other combos like Lee Sin with his ult, or Poppy with her E, but this one was the most demonstrative of the type of gameplay that we want to shield players from. As a result, the designer of Prowler’s Claw changed the blink to a dash.
Rinse and Repeat

After identifying a play pattern that we did not want in the game, we had to try out this new iteration of Prowler's Claw, so we repeated the cycle to consider even more outcomes. Going through this process multiple times sheds light on the problem from different angles, which helps us deeply understand what impact it might have on League.
TL;DR—we identify risks and use cases of new champions, items, or runes. Sometimes this leads people to ask, "Why didn’t you catch this?" or "How did you let this ship?” We often want to empower designers to take appropriate risks to keep League moving forward. These risks don’t always work out, but once we stop taking risks, League will quickly become a stale game. For something smaller in scope like a champion nerf in a routine patch, we often just provide a gut check for unintended side effects. Or, we might share our thoughts on whether the changes are over or under magnitude. These smaller changes are intended as low risk nudges to a champion or item and usually don’t require too much analysis.

For grander ideas like Akshan’s revive mechanic, we go into deeper analysis. Our job isn’t to tell designers that they can or can’t do something; a designer will try and push the boundaries of what League is, while our job is to anticipate how those changes will fit into the ecosystem. In other words, we demonstrate the risks and how they might manifest by projecting what their idea might look like 6 months into the future once players have mastered it.

So, yeah, that sums up a large portion of what we do on the Game Analysis Team! If you're a high diamond player who loves to think and talk about League, you might be interested in joining us. Keep an eye out for job postings here!
Hi everyone. I’m AzuBK from the Summoner’s Rift Team, here to break down the Amumu changes that just went out with patch 11.17. I’ve been working on Amumu with the intent of showing some love to one of our oldest champions, and wanted to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about how we approach this type of project in general.

For those who aren’t familiar, the core of the change is that Amumu can store two charges of Bandage Toss and his early game is buffed. That new power came with tradeoffs in other parts of his kit, which we’ll get to later on.

So, let’s start from the beginning. Amumu isn’t exactly a world-beater at the high end of League’s ranked ladder, and that’s not news. For a long time now, he’s barely scraped by in higher-skilled play while also bordering on overpowered for the average player. This is an unfortunate position for players of any champion, because it means that your favorite champ becomes less and less powerful as you improve at the game. It can feel like League is telling you that, in order to climb, you need to abandon your champ—and that sucks.

We talk a lot on the Summoner’s Rift Team about ways to help champs in this sort of tough spot, but actually resolving the issue is a delicate undertaking. There are a lot of tricky factors we have to reckon with on this type of change, which we refer to as a “reshape.” Many of them overlap with the considerations we have for VGUs.

We want to enhance what current players of the champion love about their champ, or at least retain it as best we can. However, that playerbase isn’t homogenous. They often want different things, and it’s a careful dance to respect as many of them as possible while also making the changes we believe will best serve everyone.
This type of project usually demands more ambitious, novel changes, which are also more uncertain than something like +5 AD. This means we spend more time than usual testing and validating, and even then the outcome is never 100% sure. PBE feedback is especially helpful for understanding whether players think we’ve gone too far or missed something critical, which can cause us to re-evaluate our approach.
Finally, we ask for a lot of trust when we make big changes to a champion, so the stakes are high. It’s unlikely that we revisit the same champ for major changes anytime soon, since we have obligations to the entire roster and also don’t want to force players to re-learn their main repeatedly. So, both we and players know it’s gotta be good the first time, aside from follow-up tuning.
With all of that in mind, let’s explore how we arrived at the Amumu changes we made this patch. It was clear from the get-go that small adjustments weren’t going to cut it, as he had nearly a 6% winrate difference between Average and Skilled play. So, I pitched a bigger idea that I believed would dramatically increase Amumu’s skill expression: 2 Q charges.

The idea behind this change was that it would add flexibility to his play pattern. He could Spiderman around the jungle, Q to the frontline to threaten the backline, Q to a minion for a gank, Q to peel without giving up all his threat… Basically, Amumu would no longer be a sitting duck after casting his first Q. This change seemed to do the job, so it remained through the entire process. We also know early power is more valuable in higher MMR, so I brought up his clear speed through early W buffs. Combined with the Q change, this seriously improved his early skirmishing.

The Game Analysis Team (high-MMR and ex-pro players who test and advise on our projects) reported that Amumu was running over their tests early game, which was great to hear since the goal was to make him appealing for their skill level specifically. Lower-MMR tests showed him to still be reasonable, which made me pretty confident that the direction could work with some fine-tuning. I pulled back on Q's cooldown, because it often felt more like 3 Qs than 2. I nerfed his late-game through R and W, along with some base stat scaling reductions. After further testing with GAT, we had a list of changes we were proud to deliver to you all.

I hope you enjoyed this look into how we approach reshapes for troubled champions. By the time you read this, Amumu’s reshape has been live for a few days, and I hope he’s landed well. If he hasn’t, I’m probably talking to the team about how we can follow up. If he has, well… there’s always another champion to work on.
Hey everyone, I’m here to talk about a small Lucian update coming your way in 11.17. A quick TLDR of the changes:

Solo Lane early damage slightly down
Lucian gains bonus on-hit damage when buffed by allies (including the Move Speed from W)
R damage shifted to scale better with crit but starts at lower base damage
Lucian’s been quite weak in regular play for most of Season 11 in all his roles (Bot, Mid, and occasionally Top). We don’t mind when a character is flexible in a variety of roles as long as their counterplay is maintained, and actually think it adds valuable depth to the character. However, problems start to appear when less played roles have much higher winrates than the most played role, and we have to nerf a champion for being too strong in a place where most players aren’t interested in playing them. One noteworthy version of this is when an alternate role dominates in Pro play, leading to the main role being limited in regular play.

Lucian falls into the latter. Despite Mid Lane having a lower winrate than Bot Lane in most skill bands, whenever Lucian is viable in solo queue, he quickly starts to dominate Mid Lane picks and bans in Pro play. This means that without a way to buff Lucian only in Bot, his Bot power in regular play is bound by his Mid power in coordinated play.

We wanted to fully understand why Pros value Lucian Mid so much, despite his weak performance in regular play. After asking our Game Analysis Team of former analysts, pros, and high MMR players, the answer boiled down to the following: Pros value early power better, Pros can intentionally draft mixed-damage compositions to offset the lack of an AP mid, and Lucian’s ultimate is a powerful solo-lane tool where there’s more room to be aggressive and fewer people to bodyblock.

After understanding the core reasons why Lucian is more powerful in coordinated play, we moved on to seeing how we could address some of these points to hit the ultimate goal of the project: give power to Lucian Bot without Lucian Mid and Lucian Top dominating Pro Play. Explorations centered on the most obvious difference between the lanes... bot lane Lucian almost always has a support.

Our first pass tried to gate Lucian’s early power by increasing his Mana costs. On the flip side, if Lucian was laning with an ally, he’d get even more mana, letting him spam Q/E and run loose in the bot lane. There was even a wacky iteration where Lucian would restore mana to himself and an ally, leading to hilarious tests where supports like Taric/Lulu would have unlimited mana to pump buffs into Lucian. However, there was a core problem here: Lucian isn’t always with an ally all game. While bot lane has 2 people, there are many cases where Lucian wants to split push since he can win many duels. And that independence is a core part of why players love Lucian. Goal 2 became: Rather than make Lucian feel bad without being near an ally, make him feel even better with an ally in ways that he won't miss dearly when playing more independently.

This brings up a critical third goal. Lucian is already incredibly fun, he’s just a bit weak. We’re not aiming to reinvent the wheel and create complex rules and hooks that take away from Lucian’s core appeal. Sometimes, simple is all that’s needed. Keeping this in mind, we landed on granting Lucian bonus damage whenever buffed by an ally. This version creates a new avenue for supports to help Lucian bully enemies early-game, and also doesn't warp Lucian’s spell-spamming, highly-mobile pattern. With some new power to snowball a lead in Bot Lane, Lucian can remain a more relevant threat before he begins falling off during the endgame.

Lastly, there's Lucian’s ultimate, an ability that scales heavily with levels, which come faster in solo lanes. That extra XP means solo Lucian gets his ult earlier than bot Lucian too, so it impacts a longer portion of lane phase. Threatening to kill level 6 opponents from pretty high health is also a big part of how solo lane Lucian can completely take over a lane. To solve this, we shifted one of The Culling’s scalings (number of bullets) from experience-based to item-based, which is more consistent between lanes. This way, Bot Lucian doesn’t have to wait till levels 11 and 16 for his next spike in ultimate damage. Also, watching The Culling blast more bullets as you get more items is pretty freaking cool.

After a few more touches on base stats and visual effects, Lucian should have a few more tools to help him feel better about heading to the bot lane while still sticking close to his independent, gunslinger identity.
Hi everyone, I’m Jag. Before I became the Lead Game Designer on Summoner’s Rift Team, I was a Champion Designer, and the last project I worked on there was Akshan (with Riot Twin Enso). I’m here to talk about him a bit.

Akshan is a mid lane marksman assassin, built to play aggressive early on in the game by roaming and skirmishing. His intended strengths include:

Strategic flanking and target access due to stealth and mobility from grappling hook.
Long range kill pressure with ultimate.
Unique utility by reviving slain allies.
Highly self-sufficient due to built-in shield and ability to choose engagements.
Strong burst damage, particularly when snowballing.
Windows of top tier roaming from increased movement speed when hunting Scoundrels.
His intended weaknesses include:

Access to revive requires killing an enemy (often the most dangerous one)
Weak reactive defenses, particularly against aggressive melees that can bodyblock his grappling hook.
Worst-in-Marksman-class sustained DPS.
Worst-in-Marksman-class attack range.
Damage falls off significantly with game time.
Extremely unreliable damage in teamfights.
No crowd control, and very low value to the team when behind.
But that’s not what you’re here for; you’re here to ask “do you have any idea exactly how powerful this revive is?”

To which I’d answer—of course not.

And that’s the point.

Our job as champion designers is to make new champions that excite players in unique and novel ways. You, the players, decide through your champion picks whether we succeeded when making a new champion: Whether they're worthy of pouring hours into discovering and optimizing. To go a step further, I feel our best champions are ones who can only be optimized by the community. If our teams can perfectly optimize a champion through internal playtests alone, there's not enough substance. Watching the community finally get to play a new champion is the most exciting part of the project for me, when players discover the ins and outs and the new mains show us something new.

So, no, we're not exactly sure how powerful this revive is. Sometimes Akshan will resurrect a single ally who will proceed to instantly run it down again. Sometimes he'll solo turn a game by killing a Scoundrel that just got a Quadra Kill, reviving his entire team to march forward and take the Nexus. We know just how much potential this mechanic could have, and that drove us to put constraints on this effect (like clearing all Scoundrel marks after taking down the first one), but we won’t know exactly how much power it affords until we get to see live data.

The follow-up question here is “Why would you do something so risky?” And our answer is because every new champion design owes you something unique, exciting, and new. Even when the new unknown factor isn't as loud as a revive, you deserve more than 1-to-1 repeats of champions in the same role with the same patterns and builds. Without taking risks, we wouldn’t have a support with a resetting execution ultimate, or a marksman that has to stop to reload, or a wind samurai that deflects bullets. Beyond that, one of League’s core identities is change, and that applies to how we design, not just what we design. We put stuff out there and sometimes we succeed, sometimes we fail. When we fail, we’ll make changes to keep trying and keep iterating until we get there.

The last question we heard a lot is “Why should Akshan have this revive instead of someone more support-y? I’d rather have more combat power.” The first answer, in terms of what led our exploration into the team utility space, is that it matches who Akshan is as a person. He’s a complex hero on a journey to find a way to be a part of the world. He’s lived his whole life on his own, but now wants to live in a way that lets him connect with people and help them, even if doing that could severely cost him.

Of course, it has to go beyond that—the revive has to make sense in terms of gameplay. Players talk a lot about champions that are not just fun to play as, but also fun to play against. We summarized those in the two lists up top and expect a lot of followup conversation will focus there, but I also want to talk about designing Akshan as a champion who's fun to play with.

League is a cooperative game. Winning requires teamwork. When designing an exceptionally selfish character archetype (the overlap of Assassin AND Marksman), finding a way to let them contribute to the team that aligns with the exact way they want to play was an incredible challenge. It's really important that when you see Akshan deep in enemy territory looking to hunt down the enemy Scoundrel instead of grouping with everyone else, you know he's still part of the team, and you can root for him to succeed because you know he's there for the team.

Tying it all back, that idea of hunting scoundrels to help your team rather than just padding your KDA is one of the key ways Akshan offers something unique. To riff on that one Henry Ford quote, "if I had asked [assassins] what they wanted, they would have said [kill squishies better]." No champion appeals to everyone, but I truly believe some of you are going to love playing this marksman-assassin who wants to help his team. That's a new experience for League. And that's why it's worth it.
Hi, Captain Gameplay here with an update on upcoming Sona work. If you might recall, Sona was briefly meta as a top laner who took the support item and just harassed and roamed, without really trying to even last hit. While we generally like alternative play styles (ex. camp clearing buffs to allow more champs to jungle, adding more ratios for champs to scale with alternate builds), this playstyle violated a core laning skill test—in lane, someone should be attempting to farm minions and contesting that should be valuable for the opponent. In addition, this strategy was particularly feels-bad, since top laners got endlessly harassed by long ranged attacks and auto-targeted spells.

Last year we made some changes to Sona in order to give us a way to address solo lane Sona without hitting from Bot/Support Sona. We added a mana refund that tied her to sharing auras with allies, and increased her mana costs. Functional, but not very fun: Sona loves to cast lots of spells, and her auras are actually a small amount of the mindshare of each one. Preventing her from casting spells (by running her out of mana) unless she played around an effect she often didn't think about made for a less fun version of Sona.

Well we are now re-visiting Sona to replace this mana refund mechanic with something that Sona players will be more excited about. In place of high mana costs and a mana refund, we are replacing Sona's Ultimate cooldown passive with a stacking mechanic that rewards her for using Q and W in a way that matches the mindshare of those spells. A positive incentive rather than a negative one that doesn't punish her by preventing her from casting future spells will make for a generally more enjoyable experience.

Now, when Sona damages enemy champions with Q - Hymn of Valor or uses W - Aria of Perseverance to heal an injured ally or protect them from damage with the shield (the full base value; a tiny bit of ambient damage won't count), she will permanently gain a stack of Accelerando, granting ability haste for her basic abilities (up to a cap). Striking two different champions with Q will grant two stacks, and W can grant up to 5 stacks if it heals an ally and blocks damage on all four allies. This new passive rewards Sona for using Q and W well in a duo lane, rather than penalizing her like the mana refund did.

After Sona reaches the cap for Accelerando, subsequent stacks will instead refund a bit of R - Crescendo's cooldown. We chose ultimate cooldown refund as a reward here to encourage very exciting, aggressive Crescendo plays.

Sona is currently planned for patch 11.16, which ships next month!
Hey all! A hefty batch of Irelia changes hit PBE this week, and I’m here to walk you through the journey:

Durability down early, up late
Passive caps at 4 stacks instead of 5
Max passive damage and Attack Speed down early
Q dash speed reduced slightly
Q minion damage scales with level
W physical DR scales with level
W has magic DR again (half the physical amount)
W damage increased substantially
E blade travel time fixed at 0.25s
Each R rank reduces Q's base cooldown
Irelia is a bit of a hot mess. She’s a lane-destroying counter god, but falls off later like a brick taking swim lessons. Her W doesn’t feel great. She’s so powerful in the hands of pros that the rest of you are playing a champ whose winrate is usually... rough. We wanted to smooth out her power curve, make her kit feel a little better to play, and tap her power down in pro play.

I had some ideas for how to get there, and went to the Game Analysis Team (a bunch of high MMR players and ex pro analysts who playtest and polish the stuff designers make) to gut check them. I also chatted with Irelia's VGU designer about Irelia's strengths and weaknesses, as well as which parts of her kit are really exciting and what falls flat. Based on those discussions, I had two initial goals. One: See whether we could lower Irelia's early power to nerf her in pro, or if "dominate lane at the cost of late game power" was fundamental to what makes Irelia exciting. Two: See if adding a new effect to W would make that spell feel more exciting and worth using.

Dropping her early durability and passive strength was successful for goal 1. In pro, live Irelia wins by crushing the early game so hard that she's too far ahead to ever fall off. This version struggled to achieve that same level of autowin laning since she couldn’t gigachad statcheck half the roster, but she still felt like Irelia when she earned an advantage. The second change was dicier. In this test, max-charge W applied Q's mark to all enemies hit. A perfect W could mark all five opponents, which was really freaking exciting for Irelia's fantasy of zipping and dashing through fights. It was also really really messed up. Even just in lane, she could charge W and whack you, mark you, then kill you. W was definitely worth casting, but too much so.

Onto round two where W healed Irelia for every enemy hit, scaling with charge time. This was still exciting, but not nearly so much as the mark. It also shoved Irelia too hard into sustain. This convinced me to reassess whether the spell actually needed an extra effect.

For iteration three, I took a step back to look at more than just W. One of Irelia's mechanics I knew was problematic, but had been reluctant to change, was E timing. In experienced hands on low ping, E is a zero-counterplay stun. On high ping or for regular players, though, hitting the stun is a decently interesting challenge. I knew this was going to hurt, but I had to try it. I changed E's blade travel time from variable to fixed: No matter where you tried to cast a blade it would always take 0.25 seconds to get there.

This definitely stung experienced Irelias. A unique combo was gone and the spell was less responsive. That always sucks. But going back to our goals, it helped level the playing field between pros and everyone else, and bought even more room to make W satisfying. For v3, I buffed W's damage and DR, and brought back its magic damage reduction! The button felt like a powerful defense again and honestly, that’s all it needed to be.

We had leftover power budget to spare (that's how warping insta-E was), so I had a few more things to try. First: Going back to a 4 stack passive. Irelia’s passive is really unforgiving at 5 stacks: Without minions around, you have to hit every ability to get to 5, and below that you just don’t deal damage. Getting back to 4 stacks was a substantial accessibility improvement and didn’t heavily cut into Irelia's mastery or fantasy.

The last story to tell is about R's Q-cooldown-reducing passive. Irelia’s supposed to be a battle dancer wooshing through teamfights taking people down and prancing around, but one double tap Q and you’ve got lead in your pointes. I wanted to let her live out her teamfight dance fantasy, so we tested each R rank giving her basic ability haste. That got pretty messed up with multiple W's and E's in a fight, but it was perfect for Q so we just converted it into a flat reduction.

After that, a few touches of art and sound, and wham, we have a spruced up Irelia we think can be playable even after Baron spawns, and isn’t just for pros.

Also now enemies can see her passive stacks.
The Future of Quick Gameplay Thoughts
Some of you may have already heard, but I’m transitioning from my role on the League team to be Game Director on Riot’s MMORPG project. Along with handing off my responsibilities as Gameplay Design Director to the current (and new) design leads we’re continuing these gameplay thoughts blogs in a slightly different form.

You can still expect to get a dev blog every 2 weeks covering a range of topics from Champions, reworks, balance, items, runes, player behavior, matchmaking, and anything else we may be working on. These will cover both what we’re doing, changes in direction, philosophy around our design decisions, and retrospectives on our past work.

What is changing is that instead of a single author (like the way Meddler and I had been doing this) we will have a cast of different designers and developers covering their teams' work and philosophies. It’ll be great to have a few more voices represented here and that will bring you more fresh perspectives and insights into areas that I wasn’t as close to.

Some of the people you’re likely to hear from:

Meddler - Game Director
Fearless - (new) Design Director
(Coming Soon) - (new) Gameplay design lead
Riot Brightmoon - Gameplay production lead
Riot Codebear - Competitive team producer
BarackProbama - Competitive team design lead
Jag - Summoner’s Rift team design lead
Riot Petrie - Summoner’s Rift team producer
Reav3 - Champions team producer
Riot Axes - Champions design lead
Riot Rovient - Personalization (skins) design lead
I just wanted to say thank you again to you all for being such an engaged and wonderful community. I’ve had the time of my life working on League of Legends these past 8 years and I’m looking forward to engaging with you all again (after a while) when we have more to show on the MMO.
Mobility Philosophy
Mobility is one of the fundamental building blocks of League combat, as both an exciting and necessary tool to keep other players at range, or close in as a melee. There are places where mobility has been crept up, including a few items that have gone beyond the limits of where they should be. I wanted to walk through some of our higher level philosophies around mobility while we’re working on a trimming pass to bring the live game closer to our ideal.

Great uses of mobility:
Mobility paired with weaknesses - lower range, lower damage, lower defenses. This makes the champion with mobility have to use its “fight choosing” power effectively because they won't necessarily win a face to face 1-on-1 against a less mobile champion.
Systemic mobility with a clear opportunity cost - Like the previous, when adding systemic mobility through items or runes it should be a significant tradeoff against the other options that offer more of the other attributes your champion wants.
Mobility with constraints - Extreme high mobility can be offered in a healthy way if it comes with situational constraints. Only allowing the mobility pop off through risky, aggressive, or contextual use allows players playing as and against to build strategies before and during fights. Good examples here are Irelia Q vs minions, Tristana W reset and *gasp* Yasuo E. A bad example we removed was Akali's R1 originally being untargeted giving her incredible engage and escape power simultaneously.
Very long cooldowns for systemic mobility - By adding extremely long cooldowns, we can actually break class weaknesses with systemic mobility. If the opportunity to go beyond what is normal is a rare and precious action, it adds strategy, excitement, and a way for players to break the normal flow of combat a few times a game. The best and only example here is Flash.
Poor uses of mobility:
Systemic mobility that breaks class weakness - Some classes (like Juggernauts) are built with exceptional strengths around their lack of mobility. Offering them too much mobility via runes or items can break both the expectations of players in the game and the intended weaknesses of the class. This doesn’t mean they can never be offered mobility, it just has to be done with extra care. Systemic mobility in particular is an area we pushed too far with the item update and its followup, and our trimming pass will focus on this space.
Mobility tuning that creeps beyond the game norms - we have established ranges, movement speeds, dash ranges, and dash speeds across champions and items. It would be a problem if the mobility tools of new champs or items are always just slightly stronger than the mobility tools of existing champs and items because that cheating compounds over time and significantly shifts the average mobility in the game.
Too much unconstrained mobility - Both low cooldowns and freedom of targeting can make mobility an overly powerful tool with no good answer for opponents. If a champion can always choose when to be in and out of fights, they never have to take risks or commit to an all in. The closest we get to this is probably a level 16 Kassadin, but in that case he has to survive a disadvantaged early game to reach that level of mobility.
How did we get here? It’s necessary to push and test the limits of the game to find great improvements, but that does mean that sometimes we will go too far and need to pull back. So we’re working on a few changes to trim down on small instances of mobility creep and a few larger ones where we think we pushed too far in terms of breaking class weaknesses. Look for those in a few patches. Thanks again for playing with us.
This week’s focus is on counterplay, one of our principles of Champion gameplay design, rather than upcoming work or the state of the current game. There's not a lot new here for longtime readers, but it's been a while since we touched on the subject so wanted to share our thinking with newer players.

Champion Counterplay
Counterplay, one of our key values, could be defined as “action, choice, or strategy a player can use to mitigate or overcome an enemy threat.” This has been a staple of our design philosophy for many years and has improved League time and time again when we apply it well. The two main benefits of this game design principle are:

Fairness - Having an understandable, clear, and useful response significantly reduces the frustration of a losing game or death even if a player or team can't perfectly execute on it at their current skill level. It helps players grow by pointing them toward actions they could have taken to succeed, rather than just feel like the game cheated them. (This is also often referred to in game design as Agency.)
Depth - Champion designs that leave room for an opponent to respond add many additional layers to the depth of the experience. Battles can be a back and forth of mechanical and mental skill instead of a “who shoots first” one-and-done experience.
"The ideal champion has clear strengths and weaknesses that offer counterplay at a strategic level, paired with tactical counterplay for in combat response."
Counterplay can come in many forms, and every champion needs a slightly different way of delivering the appropriate counterplay to match their unique strengths and weaknesses:

Tactical Counterplay - This is the “in the moment” opportunities to respond to a spell or champion combo.
Notable examples - Dodging a skillshot, interrupting a channel, long windup for preparing defenses, and positioning behind an ally or minion to block attacks.
Tactical counterplay is essential for super high impact moments or combos that will often guarantee death like Blitzcrank hook, Ashe R, or Sion Q.
In most cases it’s best to make sure that tactical gameplay is universally accessible (versus being tied to a specific champ ability like a dash or immunity) so that all opponents have the opportunity to respond to this impactful spell.
Too much can actually be a bad thing. Not every spell needs tactical counterplay, and too much leads to a kit that feels clunky or overly unreliable.
Impact and counterplay should often be proportional: Stronger effects benefit from more counterplay. (Some spells like Ashe R do both at once with an increasing stun duration as the spell moves further and gives opponents more time to dodge)
Strategic Counterplay - This type of counterplay is accessed out of combat and often by the team (instead of in combat like tactical counterplay).
Notable examples - Building counter items, invading a weak early jungler, grouping against an assassin, using a blue trinket to avoid an ambush, pushing into a champion with poor waveclear.
Strategic counterplay can be connected to a champion’s specific mechanics (like using control wards to counter Evelynn), but it’s more often a part of dealing with that champion's broader goals, like splitpushing or hyperscaling
Strategic counterplay can be difficult to understand and appreciate because many forms of it are about setting up the right fight (or avoiding it), rather than executing within a fight. Adding signals that expose good strategic play can get more players engaged in it (pings for example do this well).
Champion Weaknesses - This is a set of properties, champion class, or team strategy that tend to succeed against a champion.
Notable examples - Xerath’s immobility makes him weak to mobile assassins, Qiyana’s burst damage runs out of steam against a tank, Nasus is kited by mobile ranged champions.
These weaknesses should lead to a moderate disadvantage, not a complete counter. The variety that comes from playing the game from advantaged or disadvantaged positions (compared to a perfectly level playing field at all times) helps games from feeling too same-y, but if there is no chance of winning against a counter too much agency is lost.
Finding the right counterplay for a champion is always a bit different, but a commonly successful approach is to design around their strengths.

Kayn is meant to transform into a near-godlike form in the late game. This led to both a strategic early game weakness and putting a strong tactical counterplay opportunity in his W that stays relevant even when he’s a big late game boy.
If Jhin delivers best in class CC and damage at long ranges, it makes sense to pair that with a clear weakness to very tanky teams because he lacks the sustained damage to deal with them. His extreme range also led to clear tactical counterplay needs, so W and R offer opportunities to dodge or mitigate.
I hope these insights were interesting to you all, and you can use your knowledge of these design values to hold us to a high standard and help make League better every day. Thanks again for playing with us.
Jungle Accessibility
One of our longer term goals is to increase position preference for the jungle in lower MMR. We’re attacking the problem from a few angles that we think will in particular reduce some of the esoteric optimizations and help onboard newer players to the role. These are the changes we're initially planning at time of writing, Tuesday the 27th; tunings may change by the time this goes up on Friday but the general rationale will still hold true:

More forgiving jungle clears - With the current shorter jungle timers the pace of farming and ganking has gone up considerably, making every misstep a major setback for both the jungler and their team.
Jungle Monster Base Attack Damage reduced across many camps
Jungle Monster Attack Damage scaling reduced across many camps
Camp Respawn Timer :: 2 minutes >>> 2 minutes 15 seconds
Camp "bright' warning timer :: 15 seconds >>> 10 seconds
Jungle Gold from non-buff Camps :: Increased by approximately 5%
Widen the viable champ pool - We think that less reliance on having a perfect AOE clearing kit or the right CC tools to have Scuttle dominance will open up viability to a few more champs.
Smite (along with crowd control) will break the Scuttle Crab's shield before applying damage
Omnivamp on jungle items :: 10% >>> 8%
Smite Percent Max Health Healing :: 10% >>> 15%
Reduced snowball - Another factor that is both causing too much stress but also too much influence over the game outcome is how hard the jungle position can snowball. We think reducing this will make the position easier to break into and more enjoyable long term.
Reintroducing comeback XP - Large monsters grant 50 XP per level you are below the average level of the game minus 1 (if the average level is 7, you get comeback XP at level 5 and below)
Smite Damage to Monsters :: 390-1000 (based on levels) >>> 500 at base, 1000 after Smite quest completion
Camp Leashing Clarity (future work) - A particularly important skill for high level jungle optimizations is to perfectly manage the monster leash ranges and drag them into optimal positions for max clear speed. While not removing this skill, we want to help newer junglers learn the rules and leash ranges of each monster camp.
When within 200 range of causing the monster to leash, a warning particle will appear to show the monster’s leash range
At a high level we want these changes to be helpful and satisfying for Jungle players across all levels of play but we’re not aiming for a significant power increase or decrease for the position. We’re giving and taking away power in equal measure while shifting mechanics so that the jungle is a bit more welcoming to newcomers. There are probably a few more iterations and adjustments to make before these changes go to live servers so we’ll be reading and processing your feedback from the PBE.

Thanks again for playing with us.
Hey folks! Riot Jag, Design Manager for the Summoner's Rift Team here guest-writing this week's Quick Gameplay Thoughts.

Patch 11.8, which shipped this week, included changes to help Darius, Diana, Mordekaiser, Zed, and Morgana jungle more viably. These are all champions who primarily see play in lanes, and we've seen questions around why we chose these champs versus others. We want to share a bit about our thought process here.

Why give laners jungle changes?
Right now, the jungle is very intimidating to a lot of our players, especially in lower MMRs. We are currently considering systemic changes to help this, but in the meantime we saw an opportunity to ease in players to the jungle with champions they’re already familiar with playing. By doing this, an unfamiliar jungle player can just focus on learning the specifics of the role, without also having to learn a new champion at the same time.

Additionally, we always look to increase diversity to the experience of the game, and having a new set of junglers helps a lot in that regard. That being said, we’re not trying to shift these champions’ primary role—just add to the possibilities available.

How we choose specific champs
We target champions that we feel have a good chance of being able to off-role as junglers without boosting the power of their lane roles. Additionally, we try to stay away from champions that have a lot of pro viability already, as adding flex potential tends to make them very high priority in the pick/ban phase. Finally, we want to make sure we pick champions that retain their weaknesses and counterplay even when coming out of the jungle.

Why not bring back champions who were previously nerfed out of jungling instead?
If we nerfed a champion out of the jungle it was probably on purpose. Maybe they were overly dominant in pro (Sylas), or maybe they had an unhealthy pattern when in the jungle (Camille). Unless things have drastically changed (eg. updates to the kits/items/runes that were problematic), these picks are not likely to come back.

What about primary junglers who are struggling?
We try to keep total buffs and nerfs to the game relatively even to prevent patch-by-patch power creep, which means even if we weren't doing jungle changes for lane champs, we still wouldn't just straight up buff a ton of main junglers. Jungle accessibility changes actually don't factor as directly into buff/nerf calculations for jungle overall since the champs aren't currently seeing play there: Adding more champs to the role doesn't necessarily make it stronger or weaker relative to lanes.

That said, in cases where we are forced to choose between buffing exceptionally weak main junglers and making more lane champs jungle-viable—available dev time on the team, for example—we'll still prioritize buffing those main-role junglers. (No, 48% is not 'exceptionally' weak.) As recent examples, we buffed Zac, Rammus, Amumu, and Kindred in the past month.
We're looking forward to seeing the results of our 11.8 changes. If they turn out well, we’ll look to add even more champions to the jungle. In the meantime, expect more systemic jungle changes in 11.10, aimed at raising the jungle floor, and not the ceiling.

Yetter jungle wins,

Jag
Split Pushing Goals
Something we’ve been talking about a lot internally is finding ways to enhance the “split push” strategic play and improve its gameplay while we’re at it. Historically split pushing has been both an exciting strategic option that added variety to the overall endgame, but it’s also been sometimes a frustrating and uninteractive strategy that grinds down a losing team without opportunity for them to respond.

What do we think contributes to healthy split pushing gameplay?

Split push allows a solo player to exert pressure - Creating a strategy that allows a team that is generally behind but has a strong solo player to avoid a likely losing 5v5 is a good outlet for skillful comebacks.
Attrition is a meaningful element - We wouldn’t want a single duel to decide the outcome of the game for all 10 players, so healthy split pushing is an attrition game. Successful trades or duels gain resources and advantage over time, which can eventually lead to a strong position to win the game.
Split pushing enhances strategic play for both teams - The dynamic of 1-4 or 1-3-1 leads to a large amount of different opportunities for map rotations, vision control, and fight sizes. When this is present, we see more diverse champion meta and more skills to master for everyone.
An avenue for top lane impact in the late game - Top lane as a position has historically had issues translating early success to a meaningful impact on the team’s late game chances of winning. We think that split push can offer the common fighter and skirmisher picks that you see in top lane a better opportunity to push objectives when they normally struggle in 5v5 fights.
What things would we like to avoid?

Pushing without a champion present - We don’t like to support strategies that create objective pressure without champion conflict. Almost all of the skill expression and interest in League’s gameplay comes from the back and forth conflict of champions in various scenarios. So we generally want to ensure that the path to winning involves as much of the best gameplay that we can offer.
Pushing without risk or counterplay (usually death) - The biggest cause of uninteractive and frustrating split push is when the solo pusher is too safe. Rotating or all-inning for a kill is an important counter strategy that we want to preserve. In the past we’ve seen this caused by champions with overly strong escape tools, ability to damage the tower from too far away, and vision tools being significantly too available so approaching rotations are always seen.
Split pushers have too many strengths without necessary weaknesses - Different champions that split push will have different strengths that they can bring like incredible tower threat (Nasus), strong escapes (Camille), dueling power (Fiora), or global mobility (Shen). When champs operate with too many of these strengths and not enough weakness it can create an unhealthy state where there is no usable counter strategy.
Avoiding fights too easily - When a split push is happening, the pressure is on for the defending team to effectively rotate to the pusher or force a successful 4v4 fight. When the pushing team is too effective at disengaging it creates an unhealthy stalemate where slow pressure is applied forever without any action.
We don’t have any solid plans or promises to make yet, but we’re in early exploration on ways to enable split pushing (in the ways we think are good for the game).

Thanks again for playing with us.
Item Choice Data Correction
We wanted to make a correction to our item choice deep dive in last week’s post. The 11.3 data we had been using was an unfiltered view including ARAM and URF modes. Posts like these are made separately from the teams doing the work, and with fairly short turnaround times. In this case, the default data view included the wrong modes and we simply didn’t check it thoroughly enough to verify. Although we also want item diversity in alternate modes, we’re evaluating the success of the system on competitive Summoner’s Rift modes: Ranked Solo Queue, Ranked Flex, and Clash.

This mistake had no impact on balance decisions, whether over the past few months or for future planning, because the Summoner's Rift Team doesn't use the unfiltered view. The only impact was to the graphs for last week's post and our explanation of them in the text.

Previously we said that 88% of champions were hitting our Mythic choice goal in 11.3 but the correct number for standard Summoner's Rift queues is 72% (74% if you include normals). This is a meaningful difference, and we don’t want to misrepresent the current state of item choice—hence this followup.

These are the champs who were hardbound in 11.3, with new additions highlighted in bold:

Marksmen
21 hits, 3 misses

Jhin (90.2% Galeforce)
Samira (94.0% Immortal Shieldbow)
Vayne (82.2% Kraken Slayer)
AD Assassin
10 hits, 0 miss

*Kha'Zix dropped below hardbinding thresholds at 73.8% Duskblade of Draktharr pickrate
AP Assassin and Fighter
10 hits, 8 misses

Ekko (87.1% Hextech Rocketbelt)
Elise (88.6% Night Harvester)
Evelynn (78.7% Night Harvester)
Kennen (81.4% Hextech Rocketbelt)
LeBlanc (85.9% Luden's Tempest)
Lillia (86.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Mordekaiser (85.6% Riftmaker)
Nidalee (86.6% Night Harvester)
Mage
23 hits, 10 misses

Brand (82.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Cassiopeia (88.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Karthus (85.9% Liandry's Anguish)
Malzahar (87.3% Liandry's Anguish)
Syndra (81.0% Luden's Tempest)
Taliyah (75.7% Luden's Tempest)
Twisted Fate (75.1% Hextech Rocketbelt)
Veigar (75.2% Luden's Tempest)
Zoe (86.8% Luden's Tempest)
Zyra (75.2% Liandry's Angush)
Fighter
24 hits, 12 misses

Aatrox (86.1% Goredrinker)
Darius (86.8% Strikebreaker)
Garen (83.1% Stridebreaker)
Jayce (91.9% Eclipse)
Kayn [Red] (87.9% Goredrinker)
Nasus (81.9% Divine Sunderer)
Olaf (93.0% Goredrinker)
Pantheon (76.8% Eclipse)
Rek'Sai (84.7% Prowler's Claw)
Renekton (76.5% Goredrinker)
Riven (76.3% Goredrinker)
Udyr (83.7% Turbo Chemtank)
Tank
18 hits, 6 misses

Amumu (79.2% Sunfire Aegis)
Braum (79.6% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Leona (77.4% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Rammus (77.3% Turbo Chemtank)
Skarner (84.9% Turbo Chemtank)
Thresh (80.2% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Enchanter
7 hits, 4 misses

Ivern (84.0% Moonstone Renewer)
Lulu (77.0% Moonstone Renewer)
Soraka (75.1% Moonstone Renewer)
Yuumi (81.6% Moonstone Renewer)
Still an improvement from season 10, but not quite as strong as the numbers we presented last week.

Something else we do look at is high MMR choice variety. This is helpful as an indicator of future trends, or sometimes just reflects the different way the game is played at high vs low MMR. Overall there is a moderate increase in item diversity across the board, though there are some cases of less diversity, like Sona who builds Moonstone more.

Our overall goals and future plans are unchanged. We want to have maximum strategic choice for the item system without compromising other important parts of League’s gameplay. We will continue to make changes that broaden hard bound items, buff unviable ones, and nerf dominant choices.

Thanks again for playing with us.
One of our goals with preseason's item changes was to increase the strategic options and choices available. The changes have settled a bit and we’ve followed up on the most pressing issues, so we're sharing a rundown on every class to see where we've achieved our goals and where we still need to improve.

For mythic items, our goal is that “no champion chooses the same mythic in 75%+ of games.” The percent is a bit arbitrary, but we feel it represents a champion having viable options to think about each game. You might assume it'd be "each champion chooses each of their mythics 33% of the time", but we think that’s unrealistic and in some ways a worse experience. Having a most common pick is fine as long as other options are the right pick frequently enough. We don't think we'll see 100% of champions meet this goal, but we'll always try to move toward it as we iterate and improve the game.

In patch 11.3, 88% of champions hit the goal, which we're very excited about. This is a dramatic increase from historical levels: In 10.22 (the patch before preseason), only ~20% of champions would have been successful.

NOTE ON THE GRAPHS: Our data tool only uses about a dozen colors so we had to recolor double-ups. Only items with labeled pickrates (5%+) are guaranteed to be the right color, more than enough for a mythic diversity snapshot, but if you use the graphs as deep-dives the unlabeled bars may be misleading.

Some champs have lower total mythic pickrates because they don't complete a mythic every game. This typically happens when they build a legendary or two first, and games end before they finish a mythic.

Marksmen
21 hits, 3 misses. This is one of the classes with richest choice options, with many champs seeing significant pickrate on 3 or more mythics.

Don't sleep on: Kraken Slayer MF is very good into tankier “front to back” team comps.

2_26_21_11-3-Marksmen-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Marksmen-2.jpg

AD Assassin
9 hits, 1 miss. Duskblade is clearly the most appealing option even though it's not actually the most powerful in all cases. Even then, only Kha'Zix is hardbound to it, though Nocturne, Pyke, and Qiyana are close to the line as well.

Don't sleep on: Both Prowler's Claw and Eclipse are strong options for most of these champs, especially in the right situations.

2_26_21_11-3-AD-Assassin_v2.jpg

AP Assassin and Fighters
14 hits, 4 misses. There’s a pretty good balance between Rocketbelt and Night Harvester for most AP Assassins, and the few that can dip into mage items have even more choices.

Riftmaker fills a very strong niche for fighters and sustained damage dealers, but could potentially be widened a bit to provide an off-build for more champs.

Don't sleep on: Night Harvester Ekko is comparable and often better than Rocketbelt. Also Rocketbelt is quite good on Diana Jungle.

2_26_21_11-3-AP-Assassins.jpg

Mages
27 hits, 6 misses. This is the class we think is farthest off. Even though only six are hardbound, many are close to it. Primarily this comes from two causes:

Everfrost is underdelivering on power or appeal and is almost never used. 11.4's buffs should help, and we'll reevaluate after if we need to do deeper work.
Liandry's/Luden’s have some of the more “kit synergistic” effects among mythics, which leads to some champs favoring them a bit too strongly. They're both great items with strong appeal, so our solution space is likely more about creating competing options rather than removing what's currently working.
Don't sleep on: Other than the obvious “Everfrost just got buffed,” Liandry’s is legit on Ahri, Annie, Orianna, and Vel’koz.

2_26_21_11-3-Mage-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Mage-2_v3.jpg

Fighter
31 hits, 5 misses. In terms of strategic choices, we’re pretty happy with how the fighter mythics turned out. Multiple items with clear reasons and situations to pick are exactly the “right choice in the right game” dynamic we wanted.

A few Juggernauts like Garen and Darius are a bit too confined to Stridebreaker, so there may be some small work to do on this issue down the road.

Don't sleep on: Stridebreaker Aatrox and Fiora. Makes sense considering how important positioning is for them.

2_26_21_11-3-Fighter-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Fighter-2.jpg

Tank
24 hits, 0 misses. At the start of preseason, farming and support Tanks were in the worst spots in terms of item diversity. In particular, Sunfire was the “generic damage” option while also having the most generically usable mythic passive (Ability Haste). This made it a dominant choice that worked in every situation.

Now, Tanks are the only class with no hardbinding. We were able to move from only 50% to 100% of our goal with both balance changes and some light reworks of the tank mythics to give them more clear and viable niches.

Don't sleep on: Chemtank and Frostfire are way better than people think on Sejuani, Nunu, Zac, Malphite, Amumu.

2_26_21_11-3-Tank-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Tank-2_v3.jpg

Enchanter
10 hits, 1 miss. Enchanters show a strange trend where Moonstone Renewer, Imperial Mandate, Shurelya’s Battlesong, and Locket of the Iron Solari are all broadly viable in terms of power. Despite that, players gravitate heavily toward Moonstone and Mandate even when Locket and Battlesong are just as powerful for them.

Don't sleep on: Locket across the board, this item is killer into bursty teams.

2_26_21_11-3-Enchanters.jpg

Legendaries
Legendary items require a different approach, but the high level is still the same: Each legendary slot should offer strategy and choice depending on the game state.

We look at factors like pick rate, win rate, pick order, and others to determine which Legendaries are over and underperforming. One particularly useful method is to see which items dominate the second item slot.

Here are the most and least purchased legendaries. Many recent changes have targeted strong (Zhonya’s) and weak (Silvermere, Cosmic Drive, Serpent’s Fang) outliers to widen the range of options.

2_26_21_11-3-Legendary-Most.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Legendary-Least.jpg

Hopefully this deep dive was interesting and helps you all understand our approach and future goals for the item system.

Smaller Updates Pipeline
In 2021 we’re interested in increasing the amount of smaller scale design work on Champions, Items, and Runes. We feel like our bigger projects (New champs and VGUs) and patch-by-patch balance changes are on a good track, but there's a middle zone that can give us a little more flexibility to improve the game.

The types of projects this may include are:

Overly skewed towards Pro Play
Champions that have pattern-level (as opposed to power level) issues that create difficulties for long-term balance
They're picked frequently in professional games but have very low solo queue win rates, making it painful when we nerf them
These champs often display a pattern where “the more skill you have, the more you can remove the counterplay” as opposed to having difficult-to-execute combos that pros are just better at. As you might expect, at the pro level we’re seeing the weaknesses mitigated too far
Examples here - Upcoming Tahm Kench changes, Sylas changes in season 10
Game health or counterplay issues at all levels of play
These champs are often balanced (as opposed to the Pro Play skewed champs who end up underpowered for regular play) and even sometimes popular. However, they degrade the overall game quality because they have insufficient counterplay or promote strategies that lower the depth and interaction of other players
Examples here - Aphelios (s10 range and aoe burst reductions), Akali (s9 invis under tower removal)
Older champs that need love
Often these champs have reasonable power/win rates but players just feel they aren’t keeping up with the current game
These updates will often look to strengthen the identity of the champ and find ways the make their current power more satisfying, clear, or skill expressive
Examples here - Upcoming Rammus changes, 11.3 Jinx changes
Items not hitting their goals
Not appealing - Sometimes an item can be balanced but doesn't deliver on its fantasy in a satisfying way, so players don't buy it even in cases where it'd be good.
Unhealthy - Removing counterplay or skewing the shape of the game too far (like burst, sustain, range) are problems we want to fix. (Hextech Gunblade)
Unclear purpose - The item either doesn't have a clear set of circumstances where it's strong, or that circumstance is overly narrow. That makes it either generically weak, or a must-buy if tuned to be generically strong.
Runes not hitting their goals
Warping pattern - Some runes can be under picked mostly because they demand too much from the player and end up feeling like “playing the rune not the champion”. (ex. Omnistone)
Dominating choice - Some runes ruin the choice structure by being too generically powerful for too many different types of champion. (Conqueror has run into this a few times in the past.)
Game Health issues - like with items, runes can undermine important gameplay. Nimbus Cloak is a recent example where it was breaking the intended weaknesses of many fighters and tanks by giving them too much target access.
We’re hoping to establish a small pipeline for these projects, which should lead to a bunch of them shipping over the course of the season.

State of the game
At a high level we wanted Preseason 2021 and our work throughout 2020 to be about strengthening and improving the foundations of League for the next 10 years. I wanted to take a quick overview of the state of the game: What we’re feeling good about, and what we want to improve.

The Item System Update
We updated the item system to increase strategic choice, satisfaction, and accessibility. We’re generally seeing those goals met when we look at the game widely, but we're still focusing on follow up work to realize the full potential.

Most champions and classes are seeing a wider set of item choices that suit different games, but there are some cases where choices are either not there, or not clear and satisfying enough to feel there. We’re seeing roughly 20% of champs crossing our “Mythic hardbinding” threshold (same Mythic in >75% of games).

We’re going to continue addressing these gaps to get as close to 100% of champions with meaningful build diversity. That said, build diversity is one value among a long list of gameplay goals, so we wouldn't sacrifice too much of other important things like satisfaction, counterplay, or champion uniqueness to achieve it. This means addressing hardbinding will take longer than standard balance concerns since the work required is more disruptive and risky, but getting as close to 0% Mythic hardbinding as possible is one of our ongoing focuses.

In the last few patches we’ve assessed the state of item choices and power level across many classes to tune the greatest outliers. 11.1 saw buffs to underused items like Shurelya’s and Ionian Boots; in 11.2 we adjusted the tank Mythics to help Frostfire Gauntlet and Turbo Chemtank compete with Sunfire Cape; in 11.3 we’re targeting fighter class outliers like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage, and shifting systemic healing toward more conventional durability.

Balancing and reworking the new groundwork we laid in preseason will eventually taper off into normal patch work on items. Our hope is that, by the end of spring, every champ has a range of satisfying (even if not totally perfect) choices. As things settle, we’re looking at a few opportunities to add new items to flesh out a few classes.

The Item Shop
The item shop overhaul has hit our goal of creating a tailored experience for each type of player from new to master level experience. The upgraded recommendation system using high level player data in particular has been performing quite well: Lots of players use the Recommended tab as their default and it’s been exposing players to more viable choices and teaching them the basics of when each option is worth considering.

I would still estimate that our new shop is only 90% of the way to completely finished though. As we continue to play with it, small but critical usability improvements become clear. Now that we're using modern tech, we hope to continue adding more and more functionality over time to make the shop usability feel like second nature.

Position Balance
With so many item changes this preseason we were anticipating some needed followup on position balance. (We look at both pick rate as well as a position's ability to influence the outcome of a game to assess its power and health.) Bot and Support landed weaker than before the update, but we focused on followup for both during the preseason window and they've recovered to appropriately powerful spots.

One thing on our radar for the future is the Jungle position. It’s one of the most influential/powerful positions, but also low popularity, meaning there's a satisfaction or accessibility problem keeping it from being appealing despite how powerful it is. We've made light-touch changes on this front a few times in recent years, like adding jungling tools to champion kits, putting camp timers on the minimap, and increasing viable path options so more champs can make it through the first few clears. Those light touches expectedly weren't comprehensive solutions, so Jungle continues to be something we're thinking about. 

Worth noting: We’ve seen positive reception to the new Jungle item experience of buying a jungle starter and getting to your build right away. This not only streamlined jungling for new entrants to the role, but also freed up build paths for veterans. We're confident there are still more ways like this for us to improve the appeal of the role without undermining the core skill and flexibility that current junglers love.

Burst Damage
At preseason launch, many players felt an increase in burst damage (mostly coming from big item actives or passive procs), past the point of where we think the healthiest and richest version of LoL gameplay should be. When damage gets too high, counterplay and in-combat decisionmaking suffers, so we began looking into the issue once preseason data stabilized enough for us to be sure it wasn't just noise right after a big update. 

In the last few patches, we've pulled burst from multiple sources and are back to a reasonable state, though still probably the higher end of acceptable. We're continuing to evaluate whether more changes should be made. Generally, we try to stay in the range where burst reliant classes (mages, assassins) can kill an out-of-position carry, but not so bursty where they can do so without hitting a full combo or when missing important skills. We also use mathematical analysis with historical comparisons (how much damage is a Talon combo in S11 vs S10 vs S6 etc). Another method is test cases like LeBlanc's time-to-kill vs a Vayne at typical builds. This accounts for shifts in target defenses as well, which can be missed when just looking at a damage dealer's theoretical numbers.

Snowball
Something we always watch closely is snowball, which tells us whether the game flows in a way where player decisions are impactful at all stages. One of our preseason goals was to avoid power creeping the item system, and increased snowball would be one of the worse symptoms of messing up because finishing items earlier than your opponent would give you an even bigger advantage. Snowball currently looks similar to the last few seasons, which is good.

Data aside, we know playing from behind in League can be very frustrating even if you still have a realistic chance of making a comeback. Being at a disadvantage will probably never feel good, but ideally comeback opportunities are present and viable enough to keep games fun and exciting to the end.

New Champs and VGUs
2020's champions were successful on both the satisfaction and appeal fronts. The themes and gameplay of Sett, Fiddle, Voli, Lillia, Yone, Samira, Seraphine, and Rell aimed for broad appeal among players within their applicable roles and archetypes. Launch balance was also significantly improved compared to 2019, with Samira as the only champ who launched significantly off-target. But we know that there are always ways for us to improve and iterate in 2021.

This year, we’re looking to improve the “good for League overall” side of new champs and VGUs. This includes things like strong and clear counterplay, very unique kits that justify each new addition to our roster, lower complexity on average, and more unique thematics to expand our IP even if less popular. It's worth noting that 2020 was definitely better than 2019 on this axis, but we want to go further in 2021.

Ranked
We launched a small bundle of Ranked upgrades in both preseason and start of ranked this year. Overall this has led to a smoother climb where players are facing more balanced teams, fewer smurfs, and consistent wins becoming more important than win streaks.

We did discover one issue at the start of season where MMR was adjusting too slowly, causing LP gains to be a bit lower than expected overall, and in some cases caused winstreaking players to experience negative LP gains (eg +12 for a win, -16 for loss). That issue was addressed with patch 11.2 last week. We’re going to continue monitoring all aspects of ranked to be sure that the experience is working as intended. We’re also going to be watching this year to see if these improvements have positive long term effects that make playing ranked a better experience over the course of a season.


Small Rammus Update Coming Soon
If you watched Wild Rift's section of Season 2021 Opening Day, you saw their plans for bringing Rammus to their game through a freshened up take on this classic champion from the early days of LoL. The Wild Rift and League PC teams share the same core design values so we approach projects like champion updates together so that we can craft the best champions for each game’s needs. With Rammus in particular we collaborated to upgrade the parts of his gameplay that had aged the most while keeping his iconic speedy core intact.

Generally we want LoL PC and Wild Rift to be as similar as possible, but in the end, we'd rather have differences between League PC and Wild Rift than force one game to use the other's design where it doesn't make sense. Looking at Rammus’s biggest areas for improvement on PC, we put together a small list of changes to keep his core play pattern intact but upgrade some of the spells (like R) that are most under delivering.

Goals:

Increase gameplay options for Rammus. Give a historically linear character more choices and interactions beyond just running at someone and taunting. Broadening gameplay should also help Rammus out in higher MMRs.
Giving Rammus players a distinctive high-point that properly reflects his high-speed fantasy.
Aim is to be power-neutral, with the understanding that these new tools probably buff him a bit at high MMR.
Improve clarity and satisfaction on both VFX and SFX

(New R)

(New R combo'd with Q)
(New R)
Changelist:

Puncturing Taunt (E)
Taunt duration is increased by 250% on monsters.
Cooldown :: 12/11.5/11/105/10 >>> 12 at all ranks
Taunt Duration :: 1.25-2.25 >>> 1-2 seconds
(Trimming some power here to account for his powerful new ultimate)
Soaring Slam (R)
Rammus leaps into the air and slams down at a target location, dealing magic damage and Slowing enemies for 1 second.
If Soaring Slam is cast while Rammus is in Powerball, enemies near the center are also Knocked Up and take Powerball's collision damage, ending Powerball's effect.
Rammus also generates 3 additional aftershocks at the target location, each one dealing a small amount of magic damage and refreshing the initial slow.
Soaring Slam deals 200% damage to turrets.
Soaring Slam's range increased based on Rammus' Move Speed.
Cooldown :: 100/80/60 >>> 120/100/80 seconds
We haven’t forgotten about the Tahm Kench small update that we teased a few months back. He’s still in our plans, just taking longer because there is more involved art and sound work to do to make him polished and ship worthy. Thanks for the patience on that one, we’ll update again when it's coming to live.



LP Gains in Preseason
We've made some pretty big changes to the LP system during preseason, some of which are easy to see (no more division promos) and some of which are more under the hood (improvements to our matchmaking algorithm). There have been some hiccups during the rollout of these systems, but that's why we do them during the preseason where they have a smaller impact. The end result is that we saw players' ranks being inflated, which resulted in lower LP gains in the short term. We made the necessary tuning and fixes so that everything will be correct with the seasonal reset in January.

With all of the changes for next season, we do expect LP gains and losses to be slightly smaller on average. We're planning to do a smaller ranked reset at the start of the season so you stay closer to the rank you've achieved this year, and removing divisional promotion series makes people climb faster, and benefit more from a win streak. The combination of these two changes would cause significant rank inflation, so in order for the ranking system to stay accurate, we needed to tone back the amount of LP gained per win. 


Preseason Followup Progress
Just recapping a bit of our progress and future goals for the preseason follow up work

Priority 1 - Overall game health and pacing.
Are game length, snowball, damage, and other high level aspects of the game in the right place.
We’re currently happy with snowball and game length
Burst damage was too high on release, and after changes in 10.24 it’s better but still a bit too high from where we want long term. We have another pass on burst reduction coming for 11.1
Priority 2 - Position and class balance as a whole
Are all classes viable and succeeding in the right ways?
Initially we had (as expected) a few strong (tanks, AP, some assassins) and weak (ADC and Enchanters) classes
Hopefully with the 10.25 changes, we are in a fairly balanced state here (buffs to ADC and Enchanters, nerfs to Tanks)
Priority 3 - Individual item choice, health, and satisfaction
Is every champion accessing the wide range of choices that we intend and are their builds satisfying and synergistic with their playstyle
Initial results seem to be successful for more than half of the roster, where champs are seeing expanded choice and satisfying builds
The first patches of spring will have a lot more individual item and champion shifts to realize the full potential of the new system


Preseason Followup
With the Preseason patch out for over a week now, I wanted to summarize our thoughts so far.

Disruption is about what we expected - With changes this big, we expected a lot of adjusting to do in the first weeks. So far, we're getting about what we expected, which is a lot of balance work needing to be done on items, runes, and champions. We're approaching it as quickly as we can, having done 2 balance hotfixes and prepping a large patch in the first two weeks alone.
Too much burst from items - Something that we saw on release and have been looking to bring back down is the amount of burst coming from item procs and actives alone. Because damage from items is often fairly reliable, we don't want to push too much power here and undermine the counterplay in champion kits.
Choice is mostly good - We're seeing most champions having a good range of viable options, and we want to continue broadening them in our upcoming patches. Players tend to gravitate towards their comfortable favorite picks, but if you correctly pick items to match the game state, there is a real advantage to be gained. If you missed it, our recently posted Item Balance Framework shows our goals for item choice diversity. We don't expect to hit those numbers on 100% of champions but we hope to get the vast majority of them.
Snowball - Early indicators, somewhat surprisingly, seem to show that snowball is slightly down in preseason compared to 10.22. Typically as players are learning new systems, snowball increases from wider skill differences in a game. We're not acting on this currently, because a small reduction in snowball is still within our ideal snowball state for the game.

Shop and Item Icons
There is a lot that we're happy with in the new shop interface so far, but we know that it takes a lot of getting used to for long time players. But there are still a lot of missing features and improvements that we're still planning to make:

updated_icons.jpg
Icon Clarity - We're taking multiple improvement passes on the new item icons in the next few patches to improve their clarity and readability (especially at small sizes). Notably, toning down the intensity and amount of detail in background elements and making sure the foreground and background have strong contrast for a clear silhouette.
Icon Similarity - Another icon improvement we are working on is to identify cases where two items have too much similarity and create confusion. Spelltheif's Edge and Hailblade are one example of items that we want to shift color and silhouette to make them more easily distinguishable from each other.
Icon Rendering - Purely for the visual quality and art style, we want to do a rendering pass on a few icons to bring them up to par. This makes them feel less "plastic" and more like powerful fantasy weapons.
Shop Scaling - We're currently working on the ability to scale the shop up and down to match each player's preferences. This should be available in the next few patches. Longer term we want to add more advanced scaling options like scaling the item icons specifically in the all item view.
Quick Access Panel Pin - A much requested feature that we are also working on for the spring is the ability to pin the quick access panels open (with boots, pots, and inventory).

All around, we are enjoying the preseason so far and working hard to respond to all of your feedback to make it the best it can be. 


Champion Complexity Philosophy
Recently the champions team has done an audit and refresh of our principles around champion complexity. At a high level, we want League to have champions across a wide range of complexity profiles to help us deliver the perfect champion for every player.

A few of our high level goals when it comes to champion complexity

We want champions to have a rough bell curve on the complexity spectrum with a few very low and a few very high complexity but most falling somewhere in the middle.
As a sub point to this we want to offer a range of complexity options for each class and position (eg a high complexity ADC and a low complexity ADC)
Theme and complexity are well matched - an assassin with elaborate ninja tools attracts a player that is usually looking for a challenge while a fluffy teddy bear would attract players looking for a simpler kit.
For VGUs, we want to keep a similar complexity level to keep the current players of the champion feeling at home with the new kit
Avoid extreme playing AGAINST complexity - Players shouldn’t have to complete a PHD thesis to understand how to play with or against a champion, there is a limit to how much we want your game disrupted by someone else’s pick. Worth noting - playing AS some champions can require this much research because it is an opt in experience.
We evaluate complexity using 3 axis:

Mechanical complexity
Low mechanical demands. Spells are straightforward and “just work”
Rammus, Warwick
Medium mechanical demands. Sometimes requires higher apm or timing sensitive combos
Kassadin, Kaisa
High mechanical demands. High APM and punishing combos that demand precise execution
Kalista, Azir
Knowledge Complexity
Low - Skills learned from other champs teach you how to play this one
Miss Fortune, Sona, Lux
Medium - Playing this champ repeatedly is needed to learn correct play
Yasuo, Draven, Thresh
High - Reading a guide needed to learn how to play this champ
Riven combos, Aphelios
Playing with/against complexity
Low - Other players don’t need to change their playstyle when this champ is in the game
Ahri, Jinx
Medium - The champ requires other players to be aware of new mechanics or strategies when it is in the game, they can still play the game normally for the most part
Thresh Lantern, Nocturne’s R
High - The champ requires other players to think about the game completely differently on a strategic level when it is present
Ivern, Proxy Singed
To put it in perspective, here is how we rate our champs this year:

Sett
Mechanical - Medium
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Fiddlesticks
Mechanical - Low
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - High
Volibear
Mechanical - Low
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Lilia
Mechanical - Medium
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Yone
Mechanical - High
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - Medium
Samira
Mechanical - High
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - Medium


How we assess our own work part 3: Personalization
Previous parts can be found here for Gameplay and Technology. Today we’re looking at Personalization. That means a range of non gameplay impacting content and how it’s acquired, things like skins, loot, event passes, eternals, etc. Personalization products have two main goals for us: They’re both a significant source of player satisfaction and the main way we pay our bills, funding maintenance and new development for LoL. 

Looking at the revenue side first we judge success through at things like:

What proportion of target players purchased this content? Target here meaning players we’d realistically expect could be interested in it (e.g. people who play the champion a new skin is for)
Did this content help diversify our portfolio? It’s beneficial to have revenue come from a wide range of offerings, that way if things change with one content type (e.g. shift in player interest in skins) we’re less affected as a company.
Did this content generate new revenue or just shift spending from one category to another? There are cases where shifting spending can still be really beneficial (e.g. if it comes with a meaningful increase in player satisfaction). All else being equal though launching something new that just moves spending around means work done for no gain.
What was the cost to create this new content, system or feature and how does that compare to revenue generated (return on investment).
And of course, total revenue earned
As said though revenue’s only one of our goals here. Our aim is to be successful as a business while also ensuring players who’ve bought something are really happy about it. Some things we consider to understand how we’re doing in that regard:

What proportion of target players purchased this content? In addition to being an indicator of revenue success this is also an important measure on the player satisfaction side too. Players buy things they like and skip things they don’t.
What do we see in surveys? What are players telling us about quality, price, ease of use etc?
Do players use what they’ve bought? With skins for example a key consideration is whether a player consistently uses that skin. Dark Star Jhin’s a really successful case, with an extremely high usage rate amongst purchasers, suggesting players who’ve bought it are really happy with it.
How does the content measure up to our clarity goals? Is it easy to identify a champion when they’re wearing a new skin? This is a topic we haven’t always done as well at as we’d like, more on our thinking there in the future.
How do players feel about the theming of a piece of content? E.g. would they love to see other champions get a skin in the same style?
Preseason
We’re in the home stretch for preseason now and are focused on bugs and balance. Our most recent large change was to lower item damage, especially damage coming from unique passives and actives, as part of a goal to keep overall item power levels the same as in the current system. 

We’ll be making some pre-emptive changes to specific champions in cases where we’re very confident we understand what the results of item changes will be (e.g. champs with unique interactions with crit or who are currently reliant on the mana from Sheen). For most champions though we’re going to wait and see where their exact power ends up once item builds stabilize, then adjust kits and items as needed.

Things we’ve tried in TFT that didn’t ship
Finally some things we’ve tried in the past in TFT and why they didn’t go live.



Set mechanics (e.g. Elemental Hexes or Chosen units)

Day/Night (Galaxies)
This was a system where each stage aligned to day, night or neutral (stage 1 = day, 2 = neutral, 3 = night etc). Celestial units were only available for purchase during the day and gained bonuses during the day. Same deal with Darkstar and night.
Once we got into playtesting it was clear this was overly restrictive, making traits useless or must play depending on phase timing. We want set mechanics to add more variance to TFT. This did the opposite.
Pre picked Chosen (Fates)
In this version at game start 5 units would get picked and communicated to players. Whenever those units showed up in the shop they would always be Chosen (e.g. every Nunu was Chosen Elderwood). Chosen gave double trait bonus but no other benefits.
As with Day/Night this was interesting on paper. It resulted in an optimization puzzle at the start of the game (which comps are good/bad) that was challenging but solvable however. That meant a lot of generally unfun mental work followed by everybody rushing the same comps. We wanted adaptability during a game, rather a clear right answer from game start, hence the move to the current Chosen model.


Next, a trait

Imperials
While we were developing TFT we were playtesting with a set of units and traits, most of which didn’t make it into the launch set. We call that prototyping set ‘set 0’.
Early on in set 0 Imperials were slated to have walls they could position as a trait bonus instead of the damage bonus they ended up with. The idea was that those walls would funnel unit movement and/or tank for a period at combat start.
We were still determining how TFT units moved in general at the time however. We weren’t confident adding things that messed that much with movement was the right call as a result, since we didn’t have a solid foundation yet (this was early enough that TFT was still using squares instead of Hexes!)
Might go back to this someday, Azir in Fates suggests there’s promise in these sorts of effects!

Finally, champ abilities

Mind Control
This felt really bullshit, even for a 5 cost ability (e.g. your carry flips around and murders your team). Potential power was extremely high, even at short durations, given chance to steal a spell cast.
Unclear if we can capture what’s cool about mind control while sufficiently constraining unfair cases (e.g. mind controlled units can’t cast). Mind control’s also not a really strong fit thematically with any current LoL Champions either. As a result of those factors we moved on to other challenges.
Bard ult
During both Set 0 and Rise of the Elements we tested a large AOE stasis for Bard since it’s one of the most distinctive parts of his MOBA kit.
It had a lot of downsides. It felt terrible when it mainly hit your own units. Even when it affected enemies only it was usually just a worse version of a stun. It created a lot of awkward standing around and waiting too.
It’s a really appealing idea concept though and one we’ll likely try again someday, probably in a way that keeps the visuals and fantasy but with pretty different gameplay details.

Preseason PBE Changelist
There is a lot of information and updates coming to PBE, so I wanted to take the time to compile all of our major updates in one place. This is not a comprehensive list of all minor tuning changes and bugfixes, just focusing on the major changes.

Support Mythics
Significant changes to support mythics to better serve enchanters
Added a new Mythic to create an aggressive alternative for enchanters
Imperial Mandate (temp name)
Ally Burst
2700 gold
40 Ability Power
200 Health
25 Ability Haste
100% Base Mana Regen
Coordinated Fire: Abilities that slow or immobilize a champion deal 60-100 bonus magic damage and mark them for 4 seconds. Ally champion damage detonates the mark, dealing 60-100 bonus magic damage and granting you both 30% movement speed for 2 seconds. (6s cooldown per enemy champion)
Mythic Passive: Grants all other Legendary items 15 Ability Power
Moonstone Renewer stats reworked to include AP and HP
Shurelya’s and Locket mostly unchanged so that tank and enchanter supports can use them
Tuning Pass
Eclipse nerfed significantly - Fixed a bug causing the damage proc to trigger twice. Damage 16 >>> 10% enemy max HP.
Duskblade - Fixed a bug causing the damage to trigger twice
Immortal Shieldbow mythic passive changed from resists -> AD and HP. The synergy of resists and lifesteal was pushing too far towards “tank carries” so we’re shifting to HP for surviving burst but not becoming too tanky.
Mikael’s Crucible stat line adjusted: HP removed, MR added. We wanted to offer a clearer option for supports into CC heavy, magic damage heavy teams.
Jungle items - Omnivamp reduced 10 >> 8%; Burn execute removed. The burn execute wasn’t creating the desired play of not needing to drag camps, so we’re removing it.
Tank Mythics - We’ve been exploring sharpening the resist profiles of the tank mythics, but have not yet committed to fully removing MR or Armor from some yet. We’re seeing clearer counters to full AD or AP comps, but the risk of overly limiting the choices is one we’re still evaluating. If at all possible, we want to avoid tank mythics becoming unchooseable because their stats are ineffective against the enemy team's damage type.
On-hit damage from Guinsoo’s and “on-hit knife” changed from magic to physical to keep armor the correct counter strategy
AP assassin and fighter items - added AP scaling to Hextech Rocketbelt and Night Harvester uniques so that they can scale similarly to other class mythics
Mythic icon animations! We wanted Mythic items to stand out visually when browsing the shop and feel like they had next level power. Not all of the animations are finished, but we added a significant number of them to the shop in the last week.
Added over 60 new and updated icons to the shop
Bugfixes - Overall we have fixed over 100 bugs in the first two weeks of PBE
Many item effects are now properly unique so they cannot stack (Quickblade please)
PBE_Week_2_Rec_Items_v2.jpg PBE_Week_2_All_Items_v2.jpg
Shop Features
Stat Filters - allow you to filter your current all items page by stats like AP, AP, Ability Haste and many others.
Quick Access Inventory - Coming very soon is a new quick access section for easier selling and selection of items in your inventory. We're currently positioning it beneath the consumables and boots panels as another always-accessible tool.
“Good against” recommendations are coming in as we get them set up to indicate which champions on the enemy team an item would be strong into.
Item Sets - we’re making steady progress on getting item sets up and running, these should be ready soon.




Preseason PBE
It has already been quite a crazy week with Preseason going to PBE. We are poring through tons of feedback and assessing any changes we should be making. If you missed them, here are our PBE feedback threads for Item Systems and The Shop and Icons.

Because we want to have Preseason on PBE for an extended period of time, it leads to a slightly more complex schedule so that we can also have PBE time for each patch (10.21, 10.22). It should look something like this:

Week 1 - Preseason
Week 2 - Patch 10.21
Week 3 - Preseason
Week 4 - Patch 10.22
Week 5 & 6 - Preseason
With the scope and impact of these item changes this preseason, we are dedicating extra time and resources to respond to feedback and resolve unforeseen issues. In a typical year, we begin early work on the next year’s preseason in December, shortly after the last one has shipped.

This time around we are specifically having the full team focus entirely on needed follow up for the Item System overhaul after launch. This means that the full team of Designers, QA, Engineers, and Artists will be available to make adjustments and improvements to any of the features we don’t think quite hit the mark. Without any other projects on their plate we hope for a fast follow up that gets the game into a fresh but stable state ASAP.

We want to always be reaching for big and impactful improvements to keep pushing League to be the best competitive game in the world, but we also are mindful of not undermining what is great about the game today.




How do we assess our own work part 2: Technology
Part 2 of a series here on how we assess our work on League of Legends. If you missed part 1 which covers Gameplay and want to read it you can find it here. Today we’ll be covering some of the technical side of things. Rather than running through team by team this time we’ll look at things by category.

First up, we’ve got the LoL servers themselves that run both the in game and out of game experiences for LoL. What we want to achieve here is a smooth and responsive experience. To assess how we’re delivering on that we look at measures like:

The portion of player ping that’s under our control (as opposed to due to geographical distance and ISP performance)
The reliability of a player’s connection to the server in terms of how often players get disconnected, variability in ping/packet loss etc.
How long patch downtime takes and how reliable our estimates for it are
Financial cost of running a LoL server
Player surveys
Second, we’ve got the out of game client (the bit you log into, go through champ select in, manage your friends list in etc). Our goal here (which we know is very much a work in progress) is to deliver an easy to navigate, responsive, reliable experience. There are a lot of similarities to how we assess the server category above as a result, though with focus on some particular player interactivity as well. Some key things we look at to judge our work:

How long it takes to perform various actions like time to lock in changes to Runes, time from clicking login to being able to queue up, time to load your profile etc.
Crash rates, both automatically logged and player reported
Player surveys into overall satisfaction with the client, particular pain points, desired improvements etc
Usage of different parts of the client e.g. how many players use the stats page, how much time players spend in the different sections of the client, awareness of new additions like the Worlds hub etc
The in-game client (where you actually play SR, ARAM, TFT etc) is fairly similar too, with again reliability and responsiveness what we’re targeting. To assess those we look at things like:

Loading screen time
Disconnect and crash rates
Player surveys on in-game reliability
Finally we also spend a moderate amount of time working on our own tools. I’ll skip the details here since it’s just an internal thing, we’re looking at stuff like developer efficiency, developer happiness, comparisons to other game dev toolsets etc though.



Preseason hits PBE next week!
While the preseason changes won’t go live until early November they will start hitting PBE next week so that we can a lot of extra testing in. We’re very excited to start getting broad feedback on how the item system overhaul, revised shop, tooltips changes etc feel to you folks!

As a reminder though a lot of this is still work in progress. We'll be on PBE for six weeks, rather than the four we normally do for preseasons. That means we’ll have lots of time to get everything done. It also means things are less finished than they’d normally be for PBE reveal too though. The direction is pretty solid, details like specific numbers on items, exactly how some icons look, how information is presented etc are still being worked on though. Some icons, visual effects and audio will also be using placeholders (art being reused while we wait for final versions to be finished). That means some things will be a bit rough, with balance issues to fix, shop functionality that still needs to get finished, some significant bugs we haven’t dealt with yet etc. Please do call out whatever feels missing or wrong, and if it's not on the long list of things we're already planning to fix up, we'll add it to our list and see what’s feasible :)

It’s also worth noting we’re deliberately taking some risks with some of the new item effects coming this preseason. We’re allowing some items to contribute in ways we didn’t previously allow the item system to do. We think that will work out well, it’s very possible we’re wrong though. If so we’ll balance, modify or if necessary even remove things as needed during the preseason follow up patches. 



TFT: Fates
While it’s still very early on in the set we’re really happy with how TFT: Fates has landed so far. Player response to the theme, signature units and trait/ability design seems really positive which is a good sign for our planned further development on Fates and future sets.

The Chosen mechanic also seems to very much be working as we’d hoped, adding a lot of game to game variety plus focal points for assessing teams or tracking combat. Assuming that continues to be the case we’ll be looking to have future set mechanics deliver those same sorts of impacts, though likely in different ways of course.

We’re also very happy with the state of balance so far, with what’s arguably the most varied meta on release we’ve seen for TFT so far. We’re planning on fairly light balance changes for now as a result, make sure we don’t swing too hard on anything to avoid overbuffing like we’ve done at times in the past.


Champion Gameplay Discovery Process
One of, if not the most difficult parts of gameplay design for a new champion is figuring out the high level direction in the early stages of development. These early decisions will affect the eventual possibilities and overall potential that the champion can achieve. Additionally, with a blank canvas comes the extra paralysis and indecision from the infinite possibilities. 

To help guide this early process, we have developed a simple framework that asks four key questions. If all of these questions are answered successfully, we have a good direction that we can move forward with.

Does your direction open a door to new gameplay spaces?
In a game of over 150 champions, each one needs to bring something new to the gameplay possibilities of League.
Is your theme resonant with the intended playerbase?
It’s critical that the theme matches the expectations and aspirations of the intended player. If we’re making a deadly assassin but have themed it as a fluffy duckling, there is a mismatch between the gameplay and theme.
Does your gameplay hook deliver on the theme?
For the game designers specifically, we want to check early on that our gameplay direction matches and enhances the chosen theme.
Does your gameplay direction have room to be satisfying and healthy?
There are many small facets of excellent champion design, but at the early stage we focus on these critical two. Will this gameplay lead to a satisfying playstyle that keeps players coming back? Does this direction degrade the gameplay of League by removing strategy, interaction, or counterplay? Sometimes there can still be counterplay issues introduced later in development, but this is a check to avoid fundamental problems at the initial direction.
On top of this framework, we have recently adopted an 8-week process that both helps us capture a wide range of potential options but also find a direction in a reasonable amount of time and not spin our wheels. This process is for a single gameplay designer, who is designing and prototyping throughout using our internal tools:

Preparation
Brainstorm widely with the larger team all possible exciting ideas that could fit the high level goals for the champ. Evaluate and review with the team leads which are our 3 most promising ideas.
Week 1-2
Prototype direction 1 and learn as much as we can about its potential (answer the 4 questions above)
Week 3-4
Prototype direction 2 and learn as much as we can about its potential
Week 5-6
Prototype direction 3 and learn as much as we can about its potential
Week 7-8
Choose our most promising direction and iterate on it to further refine the upsides and solve problems or remove risks
This process, by forcing us to try a few different ideas, helps us avoid finding an idea we like and becoming overly attached even if there are more exciting possibilities. It also helps us gain confidence when we choose a direction knowing that we have explored a number of other promising spaces.

Clash Build-a-Team V1
In this patch (10.18), we shipped our first iteration of "Build-a-Team" which you can find within the Clash tab. This basic set of features is intended to assist with making it easier for players to find others to play Clash with. Though it doesn't currently solve all the problems with finding teammates, we think it's a good start to at least find friends and friends of friends that are also interested in participating in Clash.

We're working to improve and expand Build-a-Team as Clash grows and move closer to a day when there are no more players thinking “I wish I could Clash, but I don’t have anyone to play with.”





How do we assess our own work part 1: Gameplay
Today I wanted to start covering something a bit different, sharing some details with you all on how we judge our own work. My hope is that makes it a bit easier to understand our approach on some things, gives more shared context for future conversations and is potentially just of general interest to a few people too. This time we’ll cover MOBA gameplay focused teams. Future posts will then look at TFT, personalization/cosmetics, tech, some aspects of marketing and player communication etc.

These posts will be broken down roughly by team though not in a way that's fully representative of our internal structure since I've focused more on teams that have very player facing impacts (e.g. game balance) and less on those that are more internal facing (e.g. tools development). It also doesn't cover some aspects of League of Legends that are handled by other parts of the organization (e.g. Esports is a separate part of the company to the LoL team, chat moderation is done by a cross game group as is player support etc). It also doesn't cover all the things we track, just the key points.

With that out of the way first up we've got Champion Team. Here we're looking at how players engage with a new champion or VGU, how that release impacts the wider LoL ecosystem and how maintainable the new/updated champ is. To assess those things we look at measures like:

Play rates for a champion, especially how many average games a player puts into them if they play them in the first place (depth of appeal with mains). How many people play them (breadth of appeal) is also of interest, though not to the same extent as depth. Focus is on long term interest, not just interest around launch time.
We're not aiming for every champion to have high breadth and depth of appeal, having some niche champs who are really loved by their players is fine. We don't want champs are neither broad nor deep though (champs few people play and those who try them don't play them much)
Player surveys on the champion's theme, personality, art quality etc
Tracking rate of balance changes and bug fixes needed post champion release
Internal assessments on complexity, technical risks, efficiency of development etc
Degree to which the champion broadens our IP, letting us tell different types of stories, fleshing out factions, better representing under represented groups (e.g. our roster still skews towards male champs even though our more recent releases have had a better gender mix).
With the Summoner's Rift Team (sometimes referred to as the balance team, though they do a lot more than just balance) we're focused heavily on providing a compelling, fair and deep gameplay experience. That means game balance, choice structures, counterplay, creation of highs and lows, variety of play experience etc. Key things we look at to assess that are:

Champion Balance for existing champions (not new releases, champion team are responsible for a champion's numbers on launch).
Game pacing, looking at things like how snowbally games are, when towers fall, amount of PVP action etc
Player surveys on things like champion frustrations, rate of gameplay change, champion damage output and tankiness etc
Correlations between gameplay changes and levels of player engagement including looking at player desire to queue up for the 5 different positions in LoL
Balance and meaningful choices for supporting systems like Items and Runes
Our next gameplay team is the Game Analysis Team, also known as the playtest team. Their role is to be a source of expertise on LoL, able to provide strong analysis, repeated playtesting on content followed by actionable feedback and demonstration of what high skill play on upcoming content, features or adjustments probably looks like. To assess that work we look at:

Ability to predict impact of balance changes based off internal playtesting and theorycrafting (SR team is responsible for making balance changes, GAT for providing predictions on their impact which SR team then determines whether/how to act on)
How predictions fare for new champ/VGU launch balance and change in balance over time as players become familiar with the kit
Ability to quickly identify problems during development of content and systems letting teams working on those features avoid wasted work going down the wrong path (e.g. a new game mode's most optimal way of being played is extremely unenjoyable, leading to a no win situation for players)
Overall value provided to the teams whose work they analyze
Up next is the Competitive and Meta Systems Team. This is a group that are focused on some of the around game experiences like competitive rankings, some aspects of progression systems, some areas where player behavior and gameplay intersect etc. To judge success here we look at things like:

Ranked engagement like how many players play this season versus last, how does their engagement change over the course of the season etc
Clash engagement, including how many players try Clash and how many return for subsequent tournaments
Matchmaking quality which includes how small the MMR differences between players matched together is, time taken to match players, proportion of players who get their first choice of role, autofill rates etc
Player Behavior metrics around things like AFK rates, frustration with negative behaviors from other players (note: this has only recently been taken on by this team, another group was previously responsible for it)
Player sentiment on features like Ranked, Clash, Matchmaking etc
Finally we've got the alternate game modes team who are responsible for MOBA experiences that aren't standard Summoner's Rift. That means ARAM and event modes like URF, One for All and Nexus Blitz. When looking at work in these spaces we consider:

Play rates of those other modes, both average engagement and spikes in engagement
Player sentiment on alternative modes, including for event modes whether said modes are a key part of what excited players about an event (whether or not they played a lot of it was it something they were excited for?)
How much alternative modes drive new engagement (players coming back after an absence or playing more because of the mode) versus how much they just move hours from one mode to another
Quest Skins
In the coming weeks, you may start to see the phrase “Quest Skin” floating around, so we wanted to provide some context around what that means. We are testing a new skin type (not a new skin tier with a different price) that will be purchasable in the near future. It’ll have some new features with specific technical needs which is why we need to have it on PBE and tested in advance. It won’t be launching this patch or in the immediate future, but stay tuned for more information!



Balanced Champion Releases Progress
We’ve been committed to more balanced Champion and VGU releases this year with faster follow up when it’s needed. With Lillia and Yone both released, it seems like a good time to check in on how we think we’ve done since we made the commitment.

Fiddlesticks - Good - Overall this was a great first try at the strategy. Fiddle released slightly underpowered and we gave him an appropriate buff that brought him into viability but not an OP state. We’ve done a few patches here and there after his released, but those were focused on feel improvements or adding interest to his effigy passive. There was a brief tank fiddle moment, but we reacted quickly and balanced it without damaging his primary AP playstyle.
Volibear - Mixed - Voli had a fairly smooth launch, and he released pretty close to balanced initially. In response to some slower winrate growth than we expected and a misestimation on our part of his value in professional play we ended up over buffing him in patch 10.11’s hotfix. At the time it looked like the right amount of power, but eventually this led to us having to repeatedly nerf him over the last few patches. Next time we will take it slower on big buffs while players are still mastering a new release.
Lillia - Great (so far) - Lillia was the combination success so far of very close to balanced on release and an effective wait and see approach. She’s a pretty nuanced and skillful champion, so even with some fairly low numbers on launch, we wanted to give the community the right amount of time to learn her. We still may need to apply some slight buffs or nerfs in the long run, but as far as launches go this is ideal.
Yone - Good (so far) - As you’ve likely seen, we recently nerfed Yone in patch 10.17. This is an expected part of the process and we’re happy so far with how close Yone has been to our targets so far. Time will tell if we need to do more, but we’re generally seeing healthy patterns from Yone with the counterplay we intended (fair counterplay can be challenging to design correctly for the assassin class).
Overall this has been a big improvement over the previous period with many champs needing extended nerfing (Aphelios, Sett, etc). I’m personally happy with the progress so far and we’re committed to improving here even more.



Preseason Follow Up Plans
This preseason’s item system overhaul is one of the largest projects we have ever undertaken. We’re expecting a lot of disruption, so we are preparing well in advance for a lot of follow up. We will have both the balance and systems designers monitoring the full range of systems in the game to see what needs tuning in the preseason and spring. Some of the important things we often look at to make sure that the game systems are in a healthy place are:

Game length - goal is no change here (happy with the roughly 30 min average and chances for 50-60 min epic games)
Snowball - our sweet spot for 15 minutes in is 40% even, 35% small lead, and 25% large lead
Laning phase duration - we evaluate this with first tower take, which is ideally around 13-14 minutes depending on the skill level of the game
Position Power - We look at the ability for each position (mid, top, etc) to carry the game and make sure that things haven’t become imbalanced
Class balance - When looking at champion balance, if we see a whole class of characters like tanks, assassins, enchanters as strong or weak it usually indicates that there is a systemic problem underneath it.
And many many more that we will be monitoring
Additionally, we’re developing a balancing framework for items like the one we use for champions to help us be responsive, accurate, and unbiased in our item balancing. This will be essential in us hitting our goals for item choice and build diversity which requires both good choice designs and very tight balance.





Spirit Blossom
It’s been great to see so many people enjoying Spirit Blossom so far. It’s an event we’re really happy with that’s been a long time in the making for many teams. While we can’t make every event this comprehensive we’re certainly aiming to do more events like this when we can. We’re also spending a lot of time looking at feedback around particular event features, understanding things like how much different groups of players care about narrative, different types of rewards, cinematics, meta systems like Spirit Bonds etc. Based off that we’ll adjust what goes into future events to try and deliver more of what really resonates with people. Early sentiment suggests that the Spirit Bonds system for example has been quite popular, which increases our interest in trying other between game thematic systems for events.

Spirit Blossom’s Effect on Champion Play Rates
Another thing that’s been particularly noticeable for Spirit Blossom versus other events is how much it’s affected champion play rates. Normally we see a bit of increased popularity for champions featured prominently in an event but not a huge amount. This time however we’ve seen substantial increases in play rate for all the relevant champions. The chart below shows how a champion’s popularity has changed comparing this patch to the last one.

The horizontal axis is how many people are playing a champion. The vertical access is how many games on a champion the average player plays on them. Both axes are relative to average rates for all champions as represented by the median lines. That means that Kindred for example has gone from being a champion played by fewer people than average, with players who played Kindred an average amount, to being a fairly broadly played champion with a lot more play than average. Yasuo has then seen even more people playing him, but fewer average games per player, assumedly reflecting both that there are only so many chances to play Yasuo to go around and that some Yasuo players are taking the chance to player other champions for the event.

Spirit_Blossom_Champion_Breadth_Depth_v2.jpg
Source: All games played on 10.15 in all LoL regions except China

TFT: End of the Galaxies set draws near
We’re getting close to the end of the Galaxies set now, with a bit more than a month remaining. We’ll have a lot of details in both video and written form to share soon, covering things like lessons learned from Galaxies, what’s up next for TFT, how we’re thinking about different features and player desires etc. We’ve also got the first end of set tournament coming up soon as announced back in April, with the finals taking place on the 3rd and 4th of September with players from regions across the globe.

tft_qualificationprocess_graphic_v3_1_NA_OCE_v2.jpg
We hope you've enjoyed TFT's first take on Sci-Fi and we’ll almost certainly try sci-fi again someday, maybe as a return to the Galaxies setting or maybe with a different tone and approach. Next up though we’ll be exploring a different theme that we’re really excited to see your reactions to.


Context on VFX updates
We’ve been rolling out visual effect updates (VFX) to a variety of champions over the past few months, but we see some players a bit confused with what these projects goals are.

Clarity and quality focus - These updates are meant to target our oldest, least clear, and noisiest VFX in the game. We’re hoping to little by little bring all spell effects up to our current standards.
Done in spare cycles - These have been passion projects taken on by a few of our skin and champion devs when they have small amounts of time in between their bigger work. They have been really going the extra mile to sneak in small art upgrades for the game, even when it’s not part of their core job. They also read and respond to as much feedback as they can, so don’t hesitate to give it, but be respectful.
Don't prevent future VGUs - This work doesn’t affect our decision making process for future VGUs, skins, or other big projects. Don’t stress if you feel a champ got cheated out of a bigger project, that won’t happen.
Recent High MMR Matchmaking Changes
For the absolute top of the ladder (we're talking the very top of Challenger), we have to make some special matchmaking considerations to ensure that they can find a match, especially during off-peak hours. In the past, we had to set this manually, which meant that it was slightly different for each region and required manual tuning region by region every season to get the right balance of match quality and queue times.

Last week we implemented a change that automated that process, which gives us several notable improvements. The main gain is that our settings can now adapt to how many ultra-high MMR players are available - so we can more tightly tune for better matches at peak hours, and when wait times would start to get insanely high at off peak, the system will adjust to make matches happen. Also, we can make sure each region is behaving similarly, and then adjust as we find improvement areas over time.

In the end we’ve reached a state where matchmaking is more optimized than it has ever been, but when we deployed the new system, our initial estimates for the correct tuning were slightly off. We had to adjust them over the first few days and are not happy that we caused some temporary pain. In the future we’re going to try and better estimate our launch tuning with new features and be faster with follow up if we need it.

We’ll continue to look for small improvements like this, and we have a pretty exciting set of matchmaking and ranked upgrades coming for the preseason!

More Preseason Info Next Time
In 2 weeks, instead of gameplay thoughts, we’ll be diving into more info about our major Item System overhaul this preseason. We’re going to talk about some of the fundamental stat changes we’re working on and break down a few goals we’ve set for each class of items (Marksmen, Fighter, Tank, etc).


These posts will often contain talk about future work we're doing, or planning to do, that isn't yet guaranteed to ship. The nature of the work could change or, depending on what we discover, projects mentioned may get delayed or even stopped. If you'd like to see a Tweet whenever a new one of these posts goes up: https://twitter.com/RiotMeddler

Nexus Blitz
Nexus Blitz should be live next week with patch 10.15! We’re really excited to see what you all think of this updated version, both art and gameplay. It’s going to be out for two patches and our plan is to also have it return in the future again for other events. We’ll continue to work on Nexus Blitz over time, so would love your feedback on it to help with that. Our plans and when we could act on what sorts of feedback are as follows:

Patch 10.16 - We’ll be in a position to make balance and pacing changes. If you’ve got thoughts on things like class/champ balance, snowball rates, game length, frequency of sudden death etc we’ve got a brief window where we could act on them here. We’ll also be using this time to see if we can get Mordekaiser working for Nexus Blitz, with a small chance Ivern also gets enabled.

Next time Nexus Blitz returns - For Nexus Blitz’s next outing (exact date still to be determined) we’ll have the opportunity to act on larger feedback. Things like event design, rewards, the mechanics of the sudden death walking nexus fight etc would be feasible to change on this sort of longer timeframe.

New Thematic Lines
Speaking of feedback as we discussed last month player sentiment on a new theme, and its potential in the future, are some of the key factors that determine whether we return to a theme again or not. We’ve got a few new skin/event thematics coming in the second half of this year, starting with Spirit Blossom in 10.15. If there are particular elements of those themes you really like, champs you think would be fantastic in them, ways they miss the mark that can be addressed etc please do let us know. We’re looking to flesh out our stable of themes we return to regularly to make sure we’re providing content for a wide variety of tastes and to avoid overusing our existing popular skin lines. Understanding which of our efforts are resonating with you folks, which are rough but have potential, and which just aren’t of interest to you helps a lot with that.

Tooltips
On the clarity side of things we’re just about to start rolling out updates to our in game tooltips. Our goals there are to:

Standardize how we present information to make it easier to process quickly (get away from every champion having a different approach for example)
Cater to two different audiences (those who just want to understand high level functionality quickly and those who want all the details)
Make better use of color, symbols etc, particularly when it comes to updating tooltips that were written years ago when we didn’t have as much functionality as we do now.
Lillia will be the first champion to get the updated format after which we’ll regularly update older champions until we’ve got the whole roster addressed. That will involve changes like:

Adding the ‘Hold Shift to see more info’ functionality to all champs (eventually some items too), ensuring things like ratios are consistently in the expanded version.
Cleaning up unnecessarily wordy sentences, including places where it’s not clear whether mechanics are being discussed or just theme.
Adopting consistent standards for gameplay elements (it should be clear what we mean when we say ability, versus spell, versus skill etc and isn’t always at present)
Etc
As some of you may recall (or may have assumed from the way we’ve got things like Shift for more details functionality on only some champs) this isn’t our first attempt to unify and improve our tooltips. Past efforts got hindered in part by a desire to overhaul a lot of our tech and to roll all the changes out at once. To make sure things work out this time we’ll instead be rolling things out over many patches and going back to integrate new functionality rather than having everything wait until it's ready.

Disruptive Behavior Reduction Phase 1
Hot on the heels of last week's Behavioral Systems update, our first set of changes are coming in the next patch, 10.15. They’re just a start, but we wanted to get some improvements into the game quickly while we are actively working on bigger improvements.

Intentional Feeding
Detection - We’re tuning our current systems to be more strict in classifying behavior as inting. We still don’t want to punish players for a bad game but we think there is room between our current thresholds and where a player having a bad game would be. Specifically our detection will be roughly 25% more aggressive so if it previously required a 0-100 game it now will require a 0-75 game. (It's more complex than KDA, numbers are intentionally unrealistic to avoid being taken literally.).
Penalties - These are staying unchanged for now. Players detected inting are given an immediate 14 day ban that becomes more severe if they are repeatedly detected.
Leavers and AFK
Detection - Detection improvements for intentional idling, especially cases where a player is moving occasionally to avoid the current afk detection systems.
Penalties - When a player leaves or AFKs without reconnecting, they will receive an automatic loss even if their team won the game.
Penalties - We’re going to be assigning leaver punishments more strictly. It will take significantly fewer AFKs to begin receiving queue time penalties. The more a player leaves, they will have increasing queue time penalties.
Next Steps we’re going to continue upgrading our detection systems
Understand more complex cases, like when a player starts off playing normally but at some point in the game decides to start intentionally feeding.
Finding cases where players have found ways around the current detection and are “treading the line” to not get caught while still ruining games (like the occasional movement case we're fixing for 10.15).
Revamping the penalty systems with a wider variety of penalties that'll allow us to take action earlier while still being fair, and to create a greater degree of granularity in terms of how penalties for different types of game-ruining behaviors ramp up in severity on repeat offenses.
Any-Rank Flex Queue
We’re excited to have this much needed update for Flex Queue coming to live servers in patch 10.15! After seeing the success of an unrestricted rank system in Clash, we’re applying the same approach to Flex Queue. Queue with any of your friends, no matter their rank! Similar to Clash, the system will use a weighted average that prioritizes the higher skill players.

On the whole we think this better serves the queue to be more accessible to groups that want to test their skills even if it creates more games with a wide spread of ranks.



Tahm Kench Small Update
We’ve got a small gameplay update in the works for Tahm Kench. It’s still a good number of patches away, but the game designer working on it, CaptainGameplay, has some goals and a preview of our current direction:

“Let's talk Kench. It's no secret he is one of the champions most famous for being weak for the vast majority of players because his kit is so strong for pros. With a semi-global ultimate that requires him to plan map rotations ahead of time with his allies, and his marque Devour that both negates opponent playmaking and enables his allies to position in ways that would otherwise be incredibly dangerous, Tahm has a lot of power that specifically requires the highest degree of coordinated play. On live, this means when he ever rises above 44-45% win rate (in support) he takes over the professional scene.

In testing right now, we have moved Devour to his Ultimate slot, where it gets to be significantly more powerful as a spell cast and therefore less dependent on allies playing around it. It will both deal more damage to any enemies you may manage to eat, as well as better protect allies you are trying to save by granting them a shield and slowing you less. With a longer cooldown and no access to the ability before 6, opponents should also be able to capitalize on it's down times. The open W is becoming a new engage tool that will similarly be less coordination reliant than his live engage ultimate. Think a faster, shorter range personal Abyssal Voyage that damages and knocks up enemies on arrival. We are also taking this time to adjust his sustained combat pattern and give him some cool tricks. We are trying out a self heal on Tongue Lash, as we've identified that his combat pattern tends to be very one-and-done due to the all or nothing nature of Thick Skin's defenses, and we are trying to encourage offensive uses of Devour by allowing Tongue Lash to once again stack An Acquired Taste - as well as letting you use it to Devour enemies at range who are fully stacked.

The current timeline for this work is after our worlds patch, to avoid potential upheaval to Summer Split/Worlds and to give us the most time to tune and adjust him before the professional scene picks back up."

-Riot Captain Gameplay

Reducing Autofill
Earlier in the year we made the autofill parity feature, focused on ensuring it resulted in fair matchups between teams. Since then the team has mainly moved onto other projects, but we've still been working on smaller-scope optimizations to autofill aimed more at the individual player experience. We recently found a minor but successful change that increases our weighting to preference secondary position over autofill. The result is that you should see about the same amount of games in your primary position, a few more games in your secondary, and even less autofill.

For all regions combined:

BEFORE: 91% Primary,4.2% Secondary, 4.8% Autofill

AFTER: 90% Primary, 7% Secondary, 3% Autofill

And here’s a graph showing our data for NA:

Pref_Assignment_Rates_Ranked_Solo_2020.png
Blue line is primary position, orange is secondary position, red is autofill.

Ranked Seeding Moved to Preseason
Ranked Seeding is the feature we discussed in our last Ranked blog, which would use MMR data from other queues to provide an initial ranked MMR when players are just starting out in ranked. We’re seeing a few more challenges than expected translating normal MMR into ranked MMR due to the nature of the two queues. The normal queue has a significantly larger population of players that includes many who never make it to ranked or just opt out. This creates a MMR distribution with both a different shape and different center points. We’re going to do the necessary work to correctly translate between the two MMRs so we’re seeding ranked players much closer to their skill level—the core goal of the project. In short, it’s not coming soon as we originally planned, we are aiming to include it with a bunch of other features (like division promo removal) in the preseason.

Little Legends ARAM Removal on Hold
While this isn't strictly a gameplay topic, we wanted to share a followup to Meddler's post last week, which some of you might have seen on Meddler's twitter by now. We're putting the plan to remove Little Legends from ARAM and refund them for players who haven't played TFT on hold for now. We'll get back to you when we have an alternative or modified approach to share.


A Recap
This year RiotScruffy and I are alternating posts. He’ll cover in depth balance and other gameplay topics every second week (Quick Gameplay Thoughts). I’ll cover a wider range of issues in the other weeks (Quick LoL Thoughts). My posts will sometimes contain gameplay content too, though usually won’t.

Removing Little Legends from ARAM
In patch 10.15 we’ll be removing Little Legends (LLs) from ARAM. Key factors behind that:

LLs on ARAM meaningfully undermine visual clarity, with the motion and brightness they add making it harder to track champions and their spells. We’d hoped to avoid that being an issue by having LLs usually avoid central areas where combat happens. That hasn’t been sufficient however.
Very few players have been interested in acquiring LLs specifically for ARAM use. While some players who’ve acquired them for TFT do use them on ARAM almost no one has purchased them for ARAM specifically. Overall player sentiment about their presence on ARAM is also quite low.
We’ve been constraining our LL designs because they also need to exist on ARAM. That means limitations to things like silhouettes (need to ensure they never read as champion), size, emotes (animations shouldn’t look like spellcasts) etc. Making them purely a TFT feature gives us more freedom when creating future LLs to do cool things.
Having said that, there are some players who have very much enjoyed the presence of LLs on ARAM. For those of you in that situation our apologies. We think this is the right call for ARAM players overall, we realize for some of you it will be a downgrade in your experience though. For those of you who bought LLs specifically for ARAM who haven’t played TFT we’ll be refunding the RP spent on them. Details about how that will work:

Refunds will be applied to accounts that own LLs but have never played TFT. It doesn't look at specific LL usage, it's an account-level "TFT yes/no" flag.
The refund process will start when 10.15 goes out and should be finished before patch 10.16.
It will remove all Little Legends from your account and refund the RP spent on them, both the LLs you used on ARAM and the ones you didn't.
Non RP LL unlocks (e.g. Twitch Prime rewards) will not be refunded.
How we assess skin line themes
When we assess a group of skins that share a theme we look at four things:

How did the skin perform relative to expectations? We don’t expect a skin for a niche champion to be acquired by as many players as one for a really popular champion, so this is about acquisition relative to the base champion’s popularity. Skin acquisition equates to both player happiness (who liked the skin enough to get it) and revenue for Riot.
Player surveys about the theme. Are players more interested in seeing this theme return than most other themes? This is about the theme’s potential, rather than the specific skins we just released using the theme. It’s not a survey of players who acquired the skins, but players in general.
Did this skin release get more or less support from us than usual? This means things like trailers, prominent space in the client, overall amount of time taken building the skins relative to others at the same tier etc.
How many more champions exist that players are telling us they think would fit well into this theme? A skin line might be well loved and perform well, but if we’ve used up all the good fits it makes more sense to focus on other themes instead.
Based off those factors we’ll decide whether to continue with the skin line as a high profile theme, continue with the theme as a regular set of skins, rework the theme to try and better deliver on the promise we and players think it has, or vault the theme (no plans for further skins).

Some concrete examples:

High Noon - The original High Noon skins didn’t perform particularly well. We believed though that there was a lot of potential in them so rebooted the skin line with the 2018 release. That release didn’t have a large amount of support (limited publishing assets like trailers etc). It performed very well though and players gave us really positive feedback about it. As a result we’ve made High Noon a higher visibility/priority skin line since.
Sugar Rush - We’ve tried Sugar Rush a couple of times and unfortunately it’s done poorly in both cases. Sugar Rush 2019 for example was in the bottom 10% of skin lines versus expectations for the year. Reluctantly we’ve decided to vault Sugar Rush as a result. It’s possible that there are approaches that would work for a meaningful number of players, we think spending time on other options looks a lot more promising at this point though.
Star Guardian - Started off strong and continued strong. People were excited for these skins immediately, a lot of players acquired them and those that did use them a lot, suggesting that they’re favorites relative to other skins for the champs that have them. Very few skin lines perform so consistently well. We still want to make sure we don’t return to themes like SG too quickly, bring a somewhat different spin on things each time, force the theme onto a champ that doesn’t make sense etc. It’s a great example of a theme that seems to have lasting appeal though provided we make the right choices with it.
Debonair - Debonair has had very mixed performance. Some skins have done, others have very much missed the mark. We think there’s potential there though, so we’re exploring a possible reboot for a 2021+ Debonair line, along with possible reboots to a lot of other older skin thematics. One thing we’ve identified is that Debonair’s too thin at present. Well dressed champions is a good starting point, but we need more to deliver a strong skin (e.g. High Noon benefited from getting the Hellfire/Demons/Angels elements added to its Old West base). No guarantees Debonair specifically comes back, we expect to return so some older thematics with new takes next year though.


Update here on how our efforts to address game-ruining behavior is going. As mentioned previously, we’ll be talking about this work on a monthly basis.

Previous discussion in case you missed it.

Updates on Previously Mentioned Work
The report notification changes have been performing as hoped, with visibility at peak times into how the system is working roughly doubling in most regions and quadrupling in Korea. Visibility into penalties being applied won’t solve issues all by itself but is an important pairing with better detection and penalties. Example of that for NA in this graph:

Live_Change_Notifications_v1.jpg
Reporting in champ select is tentatively on track for patch 10.14 (might end up in 10.15). Muting in champ select is currently scheduled to appear at the same time as reporting.

New Work and Learnings
We’ve been running post-game surveys about in game behavior, building up a picture of how common different behaviors are and which behaviors players find the most frustrating.

Example of what the resulting summarized data looks like:

Frustrating_Behavior_Graph_v1.jpg
Results so far match the feedback we’ve been getting on social media from players, giving us confidence that the issues already under discussion are representative of wider player feeling as well. Intentional feeding/afking and other in game sabotaging behavior are clear outliers. As a result, we've decided to dedicate more resources toward addressing specifically those issues.

We’ve also been combing through our existing int/afk detection and penalties with the following conclusions:

We rely too much on behavior in a single game very clearly crossing the line of what’s unacceptable. That means players can skirt the line repeatedly in many games without being penalized. We need to put a lot more focus on cross-game behavior as a result.
Our penalties for AFKing rely too much on queue penalties (like when a player dodges in champ select). We should be using other more significant penalties more often (e.g. temp bans) for players repeatedly afking/quitting.
Our detection algorithms are too basic, over-relying on things like raw number of deaths per game and player reports. We should also be taking context into account a lot more when it comes to how we interpret certain actions. If a player DCs immediately after a failed surrender vote for example we should be confident they’re deliberately quitting even if their stats or other recent behavior don’t look out of line. Or, if a player says they’re going to AFK or feed, then does so, we should be much more confident in penalizing them quickly even if they don’t have a history of such actions (it’s very clear it’s deliberate).
Next Steps
We intend to ship a number of experiments and tweaks (like champ select reporting and muting) throughout this year. The next batch of these changes are in early stages of development right now, but we hope to share more details of our plans in a /dev post next month.

We look forward to talking more then!

Our Followup Process
With the Bot position changes in 10.11 some items and a large group of champions got changes so we’re going to be watching for anything unexpected and following up if we need to. We’re also releasing the Volibear VGU this patch, which will require close monitoring for follow up as well. Volibear is our second release (after Fiddlesticks) with us committing strongly to more balanced champions on release, so don’t expect any fast buff reactions unless he is clearly very weak.

I thought this is a good opportunity to give some more general insight into how we monitor and follow up on bigger or more risky changes. Our current follow up method has four important check points for if a champion or systems change has landed with the intended power and gameplay:

3 days after the patch (friday, also today) - Early numbers and play pattern check, if things are clearly out of line or there are exploitative gameplay patterns already gaining traction, we would hotfix.
In the next patch - By this time we have almost 1 week of data to observe the power level and some mastery of the champion, item or rune. We would at this point do a set of changes with the goal of fine tuning it to a state that we think could be balanced and healthy long term.
After Professional Play - This is typically 3-4 weeks after the changes are first put in the game, and we have to pay a lot of attention to this. Very commonly pro teams are using a champion or system in a completely different way than most players because of their extreme skill and coordination. This checkpoint is a big signal for if we need to do mechanics changes (instead of just tuning) because the design is exceptionally strong or just creating a poor experience in the pro game.
After players have mastered it - The time frame on this can vary depending on how long it takes for the player base at large to understand and optimize whatever piece of the game we’ve changed. This is typically 1-3 months after release, and we can be fairly certain that we won’t need to come back and fix anything if we like the state of things at this point.
10.12 Systems Changes
The big focus of last time’s Gameplay Thoughts was a package of systems changes coming into the game in 10.12 aimed at:

Enhancing and pushing some elemental rifts into slightly more unique gameplay
Improving low satisfaction or overly narrow runes
Mid Position Tweaks
With the focus in 10.12 following up on the Bot changes and shipping the systems package, we are getting early testing of how we can effectively bring down the mid position power in ways that also improves the overall game flow. Our current iterations are mixing two strategies:

Slight resource reduction (gold/XP)
Increased wave presence to make roaming slightly more of a missed opportunity
These changes will take a bit of time to tune and get right, so we’re not expecting them to ship in 10.12.

Elemental Rift Touch Up for 10.12
We’ve been slow burning on a few light improvements to some Elemental Rifts. After having some time to see the Elemental Rifts gameplay settle in this season, we’re very happy with how environmental changes add new mastery points and freshness without generating particular advantage to one team or another - it’s how well you use them. Based on that, we’re adding a few more elements to some rifts to enhance their gameplay possibilities:

Infernal Rift - Destruction of walls opens new pathing, doubling down on this idea.
Additional Blast Cones spawn in the jungle and alcoves
Cloud Rift - Whirlwinds in the jungle enhance speed and rotations
Additional Scryers Blooms spawn in the jungle
Wind speed areas now have increased effect for champions out of combat
Runes and Summoner Spells for 10.12
We’ve also looked through runes and summoner spells for improvements and discovered some opportunities. We’ve targeted runes and summoners that are weak, too narrow, or underdelivering on satisfaction causing them to have very few users.

Keystone Runes
Guardian - the goal here is to ease up the usability of this rune significantly by making the area that you can protect allies much larger. Additionally, we’re changing the trigger from “any damage” to a significant burst of damage so that you have fewer cases where it triggers on tiny chip damage.
Predator - Overall we’re simplifying and removing some restrictions like the long channel time, reducing the cooldown significantly and lowering the damage. The end result we hope is that this remains a strong option for ganking junglers, but also can find use with top fighters and supports.
Minor Runes - We’re looking to tune and tweak a handful of minor runes.
Unflinching - Simplifying to a more available tenacity option. 10% tenacity increased to 30% at low health.
Approach Velocity - Removing the ally element which hasn’t delivered on the intended core idea for CC heavy champs to capitalize on their picks. New direction - movement speed towards CCed enemies, doubled when the CC is applied by yourself.
Ghost - Ghost overall seems like a weak summoner, so we’re taking the opportunity to buff it but also look for ways to improve its satisfaction and differentiation from other summoners. We’re still iterating on this, but currently changes like removing the “ramp up” are on the table.
Bot and Mid Progress
After testing our first round of Bot lane changes, we’re fairly happy with the initial spike, but we think there is an even better direction that focuses entirely on defensive power instead of splitting it between offense and defense. In the end, we think that the core pain point bot lane players are having isn’t a lack of damage, but survivability and self reliance. We’re hoping that a mix of base health and movement speed, give the correct small nudge in terms of surviving burst and dodging incoming spells. The current set of changes we’re testing (not final) are:

Base HP +30 (across bot lane marksmen)
HP per level +2
Zeal MS: 5% >>> 7%
PD MS: 5% >>> 7%
RFC MS: 5% >>> 7%
Shiv MS: 5% >>> 7%
Hurricane MS: 7% >>> 9%
Our current goal is to ship these bot lane changes for 10.11 if we can get confidence that they’re balanced and producing the right outcomes. Work on mid lane hasn’t yet started, we will pick that up after we finish up the bot position buffs.


This week I figured it would be good to focus on inting/afking, given it’s been a topic of quite a lot of conversation recently. It’s also something we should be talking about more, since it’s an ongoing pain point for many players.


TL;DR : Deliberate game-ruining behavior is something we need to prioritize addressing more. In the near future we’ll improve how report feedback works and introduce reporting in Champ Select. In the moderate term we’ll test more responsive detection of deliberate inting/pseudo afking. We're still considering steps after that but the plan is to keep working on this longer term. We’ll keep you updated each month on how internal progress and tests being run in specific regions are going.

The Long Version
First off, let’s define exactly what we’re talking about:

This is about players deliberately ruining the game for others, making it very difficult or impossible for their team to win.
It’s not about people who are genuinely trying and having a bad game or series of games even. Sometimes someone gets absolutely crushed in lane and dies over and over again. That’s very different to a player deciding the game’s over and then spending their time trolling others instead of trying to win.
The sort of behavior we’re looking at here involves things like deliberately dying while pretending to try, running around taking CS from others but then deliberately avoiding teamfights/objectives etc. It’s not as easy to detect as straight AFKing or constant inting, it still ruins games though.
It happens at all levels of play, though tends to be more common with players who’ve been playing for a while and generally understand how to avoid getting banned by our existing AFK and obvious inting detection.
Streamers often get targeted for this sort of trolling due to their higher profile. It’s not an issue unique to streamers, though.
Ok, so here's where are our heads are at:

First off, this is an area we need to prioritize work in more than we have recently. We haven’t done enough here relative to current player pain these behaviors are causing. We’re working right now to figure out which people we can pull off other projects to work on this instead.
Second, solutions here need to be really targeted at these specific issues. Other behavior-influencing work is valuable too, whether that’s things like Honor, other social/recognition systems, features with social impact like Clash, etc. They’re not a replacement for taking action on this sort of game-ruining behavior that needs to be addressed regardless.
That’s pretty general, so what actual changes are we planning?

Right Now - Improving Report Feedback
We’ve just started trialing improvements to how our report and notification systems work. For now, those are live on NA only, if this test goes well we’ll roll them out worldwide in a couple of weeks. Those should result in a significant increase in the number of punishments being surfaced.

One component of that is changes to how punishment notifications are generated. Previously you’d only be notified that a user you'd reported had been punished if that punishment was triggered immediately after the game you were reporting them for and the punishment was for the specific category you’d reported them in. The actual punishment system, however, looks at a player’s games over time and aggregates reports from different categories together. As a result, notifications were substantially lower than actual punishments. The revised notification system, by contrast, will notify you if a user was punished regardless of category of report and will do so if the player gets punished after any of their next dozen or so games.

Short Term - Champ Select Reporting and Muting
Disruptive behavior in Champ Select is a problem that players have very few ways to deal with. Starting around late Q2 we're going to give you the ability to report disruptive players in Champ Select. First, these reports will be used to establish a data foundation for champ select behavior. Then, once we've got enough data to identify different types of behavior accurately, we'll deploy a punishment system.

Moderate Term - Rapid Detection and False Positive Trade Off
After the above changes, we want to go back and reexamine our previous stance on rapid, automated detection of players who are trying to lose a game. We’ve been very cautious about it historically due to the risk of falsely identifying, and therefore punishing, a player who isn’t actually trolling. Avoiding unjust temp bans is important to offer a good player experience. Having said that, so is controlling deliberate trolling, self-sabotage, etc. In retrospect we may have prioritized avoiding one type of player pain too much at the expense of another type, so want to look at our options here again.

One thing that would be helpful as part of that is understanding where your heads are at as LoL players. What’s an acceptable rate of incorrect bans if it results in a noticeable drop in deliberate inting/afking? Is it worth accidentally giving a two-week ban to one player who was genuinely trying if that means 19 trolls also get banned? What if the ban is undeserved 1/100 times? 1/1000? Are incorrect bans never acceptable at all?

Longer term - To be determined
Beyond that, we’re still assessing which approaches to investigate next. We plan on doing more work in this space than just what’s listed above once we’ve got some of those projects shipped. We’ll update you folks on how things are going within a month.
Position Power Philosophy
Before getting into the details I wanted to outline our high level philosophy around position power. We look at positions in terms of game influence - which is their ability to impact the overall outcome of the game (win/loss) through good or bad performance. First off, we don’t believe that all positions should have the same level of game influence. Positions can vary in resources, map positioning, and skill ceiling which creates natural power positions in the game. We think rather than fully flatten the natural strategy and skill variety in LoL we would prefer to support the uneven role power but balance them into a tight spread so that all positions have the capacity to carry the game with good performance.

For example, we think a position like support, which has less intense skill demands throughout the game and lower resources, will have slightly less influence on win/loss than the other positions but they can make up for it by boosting their team’s performance through vision and utility. Worth noting that we aim for support influence being slightly low not extremely low influence as it was in the early days of League. Also we increased top lane influence this season, because we thought it should be on par with the other farming positions.

If you’re interested in our methods - the current metric we use to track position influence/power is how much an MMR difference (used as a proxy for good or bad performance) in that position affects the outcome of an otherwise even game. In a powerful position, a MMR difference can be highly impactful to the game outcome, whereas it has less of a difference in a weaker one.

Bot and Mid
Current state of the game, we see top dramatically improved from the last two seasons, and jungle remaining powerful. Our next focus is on Mid and Bot Carry positions, which aren’t far off but could use some slight adjustments.

Bot carry power has decreased slightly this season, so we wanted to put a small amount of power back into the role. We are exploring a few options, and we may not put power directly back into XP.

We think mid should be among the strongest positions in the game, but currently it is carrying a bit too much power. Slight nerfs should bring it in line, and we still intend for mid to be a highly influential role. We will likely have to change some mechanics (not just tune numbers) to effectively nerf mid without indirectly hitting top.

Matchmaking Algorithm and Ranked Seeding
We’re currently working on a few more improvements to matchmaking - an improved algorithm and ranked seeding.

We're improving the matchmaking algorithm to close in on a player's skill much more quickly as they play games. This'll reduce the amount of time every new player goes through the initial calibration period where the system doesn't yet know how to accurately matchmake them. It also reduces the amount of time smurfs are in matches well below their actual skill level.

Ranked Seeding will additionally improve the speed that we find a player's skill by using previous matchmaking data from normal queues to “seed” a player with a better rating when they first start ranked. Before this change, we always used a fresh rating (around high silver) for new ranked players, which led to problems with both smurfs and players that are truly new.

We’re planning to iterate on and test these changes slowly to make sure that they don’t have any unknown negative effects, but our goal is to have these fully rolled out some time this summer.

Clash so far
Now that Clash has been out for a little bit we wanted to share a few details on how it’s going and what’s up next:

The most recent run of Clash hit record participation numbers in most regions. Overall participation was up 30% on previous bests, with some regions up as much as 90%.
We’re continuing to work on bug fixes and quality of life changes for Clash. Recent notables include a fix for a bug where a few players couldn’t swap champions in champ select (thanks to everyone who submitted details, they were really helpful) and added details about Clash rewards you’ve earned in the Clash tab.
One of our next focuses is on smurfing. We’ve already adopted the policy that an account identified as smurfing will have its rewards stripped and then be blocked from future Clash participation. That’s not enough by itself though so we’re looking into other approaches as well. Nothing specific to share yet, wanted to share that it’s being looked at though given it’s been a key point of feedback received on Clash so far though.
Since the launch of Clash we’ve also seen the number of premade 5s in Flex queue increase substantially, up to double where it was previously in some regions before Clash launched. We believe that reflects teams using Flex to practice before Clash tournaments. To help Flex be more useful again we’re going to be removing the tier limits for who you can queue with in flex to make it easier to get a team together (Clash doesn’t have those same restrictions either). To avoid abuse cases we’ll then skew a team’s MMR significantly towards the MMR of its highest MMR player so that adding low MMR players can’t be used to gain an advantage.
Improving Event Rewards
I also wanted to touch on our event rewards systems, with some context on how they’ve changed over time and then a bit on what we’re thinking for the future.

First off, looking at pass grind. The graph below shows the average number of games of SR per day during an event that were required to get that event’s prestige skin and how it’s changed over time. It covers the events from Battle Academia last year to our projections for the next event after Galaxies. Galaxies has separate columns for pre and post token buffs. Around Worlds last year, we realized the event pass/prestige skin system was much grind heavier than it should have been. We’ve been reducing that over time as a result, both by making rewards in general more available and by shifting rewards towards missions, rather than sheer number of games played.

With Mecha Kingdoms especially we felt we’d gone a bit too far in reducing commitment needed, both from the perspective of how exclusive prestige skins should be and also just from a revenue perspective. Event pass and related sales help fund things like game modes, ability to give away content in free missions/loot, etc. With Galaxies we pulled back as a result, though then realized we’d put too much grind back in. As a result we pivoted partway through Galaxies, putting more tokens into missions to reduce grind.

We’ll be adding more tokens again to weekly win missions for the next upcoming event as well, as per the May 2020 column in the graph, getting to similar levels as Worlds/Night and Dawn last year.

Graph_Image_v1.jpg
For anyone who wants to dig into the details more, here’s all the relevant data in table form. Some things to note here:

Back when we used win of the day missions instead of weekly missions the average player with an event pass only got 18 wins of the day on average. Almost every pass buyer gets all the weekly missions now however and that’s been factored into the relevant column here.
Worlds 2019 is an outlier, since it was a much longer pass than average but also included two available prestige skins. The games to hit 2000 tokens value is for games needed to acquire one of those skins as a result.
Event	
Pass duration in days

Mission Tokens	Tokens from Pass Bundle	Average tokens earned from wins of the day/weekly wins	Average tokens per SR game	Average SR games per day to hit 2000 tokens
Battle Academia	31	300	200	324	9	4.22
Arcade	31	300	200	324	9	4.22
Project	32	300	200	324	9	4.08
Worlds 2019	54	400	200	547	9	1.76
Night & Dawn	32	300	200	940	9	1.94
Mecha Kingdoms	34	300	200	1000	9	1.63
Galaxies (at launch)	32	300	200	800	7.5	2.92
Galaxies (post fix)	32	300	200	940	
7.5	2.33
Next not yet announced event	32	300	200	1000	7.5	2.08
Looking to the future we think our event rewards, both free and premium, can be further improved. We’re working on moving to a track based system, like the one TFT and a lot of other games use, which should make it a lot easier to understand what rewards are available, how you’re progressing, what impact missions will have, which rewards you can get for free etc. We do want to ensure a higher degree of player choice remains as well though, in terms of what specific rewards you can get, which we think is a good aspect of the current system.

In terms of timing that work isn’t far enough along yet to talk about exact dates. We’re aiming for sometime this year though certainly.

TFT and the Galaxies system
Finally on the TFT side of things wanted to touch on the Galaxies mechanic that was added in 10.7. Our goal for it was that it should result in games where what was optimal was clearly different than normal, creating different decisions and therefore comps/experiences. Overall we think it’s doing a great job of that so far, giving a lot of game to game variety. It’s still a work in progress though certainly and we’ll be adding further galaxies over time, removing or reworking those that aren’t as enjoyable (or influence game outcome too much), tuning the frequency of how often galaxies show up etc.

OK, we know what you're thinking. Why the heck are we giving fighters EVEN MORE AD next patch?!

The gist of it is that ever since the Preseason 2021 item overhaul, light fighters like Irelia and Xin Zhao have felt a lot more like unpunishable tanky murderers than they really should. When these kinda champs have too much of their power in health and defensive-skewed items, their high-risk high-reward playstyles get washed out and become reliable/low-risk yet still high-reward. They basically become frontliners that can singlehandedly murder you, rather than risky champions who have to be swift and smart going into fights in order to get their sweet, sweet payoffs. At that point, why would you pick Nasus when Riven feels just as durable and has better damage and mobility? (Okay, we're exaggerating a bit here, but you get what we mean.)

An interesting issue in the fighter item space is that a lot of the items are pretty similar, yet the champions and classes they’re meant for are quite diverse. What do Illaoi (a juggernaut), Fiora (a light fighter), and Vi (a diver) all have in common? Honestly, not very much, but they use a lot of the same items and are all called fighters. Last season, that problem got even worse as they all consolidated around a handful of powerful items like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage. Sterak’s made pretty much all fighters good at teamfighting, while Goredrinker did the same plus gave them all huge heals at low health. These subclasses started blending together rather than distinguishing themselves as three separate archetypes. Not all fighters are supposed to be good at teamfighting, and when Sterak’s is making them that way, it can be kinda f-... messed up.

To de-homogenize the system, we considered adding new items tailored specifically for each class. We did a bunch of early explorations for new fighter items and even tried overhauling some existing underused ones. (There were some wild ideas like making Silvermere something like the old Sword of the Occult, and a killed-in-the-box version of Maw that would grant invulnerability). These explorations were fun and interesting, but we came to realize that this was like building on a shaky foundation. Before adding anything, we needed to make sure that no item in the current system is a default item of EVERY subclass. Each subclass also needs to have exciting items that reasonably cover their needs. And last but not least, for the long-term health of the fighter class at large, we had to ensure that no items break down their subclass's weaknesses. Once we have those fundamentals down, maybe then we can consider adding new items if necessary.

With all of this in mind, we determined that the single most impactful thing we could do was to push Sterak's out of being a default option for every fighter everywhere. It should be a strong anti-burst teamfight option for juggernauts like Darius, whereas champions like Viego or Master Yi shouldn't get access to that without some serious tradeoffs. Just like how we weren’t comfortable with juggernauts getting a dash using ol’ dashy Stridebreaker, we aren’t comfortable giving light fighters the durability they’re currently getting with Sterak’s Gage.

These kinds of characters do need some defensive options though, and for that, we're moving Death’s Dance back toward hybrid physical/magic damage reduction. The reason we chose Death’s Dance is that the item requires fighters to actually deal damage in order to survive the bleed. They can’t just sit on the front line and soak damage, happy as a clam, leisurely waiting for the right opportunity to go in; unless they fight with finesse, Death's Dance won't save them.

Outside of that, we’ve shifted some other item stats around to make sure that light fighters don’t incidentally stack health just by building their damage items. Risky characters should be building offensive tools that open them to death when they play poorly, so those items have to be powerful and tempting to purchase. Not every fighter should be able to use every fighter item in the shop, but every fighter should feel like they have items built for them.

I really do want to note that we’ll be watching this closely and following up on outlier champions or items (whether too strong or too weak!). We’re also keeping an eye on other classes who might poach these items as well. Some overlap is fine, but when a choice item overrides one of their class weaknesses, that’s also no good. We still think there are more spots in the system that need work, but we’d rather we take a good step toward making the current system better than wait until we can change it all at once.
Hello, Riot Sirhaian here! I’m a senior VFX artist on the Skins team who sometimes updates older League champions’ VFX.

VFX updates started out as a personal project a few years ago with Veigar (never forget the old Veigar cage ❤). Now, a few years down the line, we’re a small team of passion-fueled VFX artists working to modernize League’s roster and improve gameplay readability.

With more VFX updates coming, we thought it would be a great opportunity to talk about why we’re doing them, how we go about it, and how you can help us improve!

042522_Veiger_VFX.jpg

Veigar’s cage before and after the 2018 update

VFX Updates Explained
VFX updates—or visual effects updates—are small improvements geared toward sprucing up some of the oldest champions in League’s roster. They’re done to upgrade overall gameplay consistency, readability, and graphics quality, all while elevating champions’ thematics and resonance.

Unlike VGUs, VFX updates only affect the visual effects of a given champion, not all of a champ’s visuals. Most of the time, VFX are the spells they cast, or the effects that play around them when they emote. Explosions, magic, sparkles, you name it! There are a few exceptions to this rule, though. Occasionally the audio team might make a few tweaks or add new sound effects, and we may make small adjustments to animations or quickcast indicators if they’re really inaccurate (like Annie’s pre-update W). But when it comes to gameplay, models, textures, and character animations, there are no changes. This tight scoping allows us to ship VFX updates a lot faster than VGUs or ASUs (Art and Sustainability Updates).

Because VFX updates are a lot faster than VGUs or ASUs, we have a lot more free reign on which champions to tackle next. A huge factor for us is passion, but we also focus on the champions that need the update most. To figure out who this is, we have some goals we use as guidelines:

Primary: Fix gameplay issues such as inaccurate or missing hitbox indicators, VFX features that broke over the years, or wrong visual communication (does something read as its appropriate spell)
Secondary: Improve gameplay readability (how easy it is to see abilities), reduce overall visual noise (reduce the “busy-ness” of textures that have a lot of very fine, unneeded details) and adjust spells' visual power levels (spells should not be too bright or too hard to see)
Tertiary: Enhance thematic resonance (make a Void champion feel more Voidy, for example)
Our goals are ranked in order of importance, so gameplay readability will always prevail over thematic resonance, and the primary goal of VFX Updates will always be to prioritize the correction of inaccurate hitbox indicators.

042522_Blitz_VFX.jpg

Blitzcrank’s R, before and after his VFX Update

There are a few other things we have to consider when working on and shipping VFX updates. For example, just like our engineers have made strides to remove spaghetti code from the game, we’ve been hard at work removing the... marinara (blood) that dressed it. This is something we could get away with in the olden times, but not anymore, no matter how much it pains us (who doesn’t love some good marinara on their spaghetti code?).

042522_Amumu_VFX.jpg

Trying to match the style from The Curse of the Sad Mummy for Amumu’s new R VFX

We also try to add more flair to skins that under-deliver relative to their skin tier. That said, we have to be mindful of the time commitment when we’re approaching skin catalogs. Here are some general guidelines we follow when updating skins:

All skins will receive appropriate changes to match the new base changes. For example, if an indicator is made bigger on base to better match the gameplay, all indicators should have the exact same size on all the skins.
Skins that already had modified or unique VFX before the VFX update will preserve that same level of distinction
750 RP (and lower) skins can only receive one small tweak if it makes sense
975 RP skins will receive a small recolor if it makes sense, and some added elements if it makes sense
1350 RP skins will receive entirely new VFX if they don’t already have them
1820+ RP skins will receive entirely new VFX if they don’t already have them, and can receive VFX for their emotes where/if it makes sense
Skins that already have modern VFX matching their tier will likely not receive new VFX (there’s no need to update the brand new skin your favorite champion just received if they already have modernized VFX).

How We Approach VFX Updates
Are you still with me? Good! Now I’m here to tell you how we actually do the thing in seven simple steps!

We choose a champion to update. This can be a champion a particular artist really enjoys, one we feel really needs a touch-up, or just someone next on our list. Some champions need more work than we can solve (like VGU or ASU tier), and we pass on these during our evaluation. So, if your favorite champion has very old VFX, they may be even more challenging than they appear—but that doesn’t mean we won’t get to them eventually.
Once the champion is selected, the VFX artist starts with the base skin. Throughout production there’s a constant feedback loop between the artist, the VFX Update team, and the entire LeagueVFX Community at Riot. This involves sound designers, game designers, and a whole lot more people. While it is most often a single artist working on a given VFX update, it’s always a team effort, especially when it comes to feedback.
Once the base is solid and approved, the VFX artist starts working on the skins. All skins are made to match the updates made to the base. Older skins tend to receive more changes than newer ones, as more modern skins are usually pretty up-to-date.
After this, everything's sent to testing to catch potential oversights and bugs.
Once bugs have been fixed we ship the VFX update to PBE, often sharing a little video on Reddit or social media so we can look to players and the community for feedback.
We try to gather as much feedback as we can, constantly watching Twitter, YouTube, and the League of Legends and LeaguePBE subreddits. We make sure to look at each champion's “main” subreddits as well.
And finally we ship the VFX update to live. If anything comes up at a later date, we’ll apply it in an update in the following patch to make it right.
How You Can Help
Because VFX updates are faster than other in-game updates like VGUs or ASUs, we don’t publish development blogs along our journey. That said, we still love to get your feedback! We always try to read as much as we can, but sadly we cannot reply to everyone. But if your feedback is constructive, helpful, and provides an alternative that we hadn’t run into before, there’s a chance we’ll follow up to get more of your insight!

In general, the best place to offer feedback is through our r/LeaguePBE Subreddit posts such as these: Leona VFX Update Feedback Thread or Shaco VFX Update Feedback Thread.

042522_Thresh_VFX.jpg

Working on the Thresh Lantern for his 2020 VFX Update

All this said, sometimes it can be hard to make feedback constructive, especially if we're talking about your main! Here are a few things we look for:

1. Is it actionable?

Specific feedback that points to a specific change is by far the most useful. This might look like “This skin could use a new Q indicator like the others of the same tier” or “This hitbox looks incorrect, can you take a look at it?” Or even, “The projectile isn’t very visible and is hard to read.” These are all examples of great actionable feedback that we can take a look at and address.

Vague feedback is hard to act on because it's less clear what would address it, and all-encompassing feedback (like adjusting theming) is usually out of scope for VFX updates.

2. Is it objective?

Like all art, VFX can elicit opinions. While one person might love the original design, someone else could hate it. So saying “I hate the color green, can you change it?” unfortunately isn’t something we can solve. But we could potentially address “This color green doesn’t match the skin.”

3. Is it mostly unanimous?

This is a pretty big one. While we always try to make as many of you happy as possible, the reality is that not everyone likes the same things. We’re more likely to act on overwhelming consensus than we are a single person’s dissent (even a main's!).

Something else to note here is that League is a global game, so while something is trending in your language or region, that might not be the global response. At the end of the day we try to listen to the majority of people everywhere, not just the loudest!

042522_YasTeemo_FVX.jpg

As a special callout, I just want to add that insulting an individual artist is never the right approach. Constructively calling out issues with the work is alright (encouraged, even!) but personal insults make it less likely that members of the team will want to keep working on these extracurricular passion projects. They also risk sending a signal to League leaders that VFX updates could be harming the community rather than helping it: Angry players + Discouraged devs = Not Worth.

We love getting your constructive feedback because it shows us you’re really passionate about this endeavor. This keeps us going and helps us make League a better game!

The Future of VFX Updates
We hope you learned something from this post! We haven’t talked much about the VFX updates process in the past, and that’s something we wanted to fix. Whenever a new VFX update happens and you see a post about it on social media channels, please don’t hesitate to leave your feedback! We always try to read as much feedback from all of you as possible.

And as for who’s getting the next VFX update... Well, that’s a secret! But don’t worry, we’re hard at work on more VFX updates to make sure your favorite champions get the sparkles and love they deserve!
TimTamMonster here, your new Product Lead for Behavioral Systems.

Let’s get right to it. I know many of you have been disappointed in the lack of progress made in Behavioral Systems over the last few years. You’ve told us again and again that this space is important. And I'm with you. That’s why I'm here to share some updates kicking off Riot's new approach to this space in 2022.

Shifting Focus to the 95%
Over the last couple of years, we've largely focused on "behind the scenes" upgrades to our detection and punishment systems to improve your experience, and we now know this isn’t making enough of an impact. The data shows that only 5% of players are consistently disruptive. These are players we definitely should be punishing, and we will always continue improving our systems for that. But the other 95% are regular players who get tilted every once in a while, and these players make up 86% of our reports. In other words, almost all reports are on the average player who usually behaves well.

We've all been there; League is a competitive game. But when each game has 9 other players, if everyone is occasionally disruptive, you’ll probably run into these behaviors often. And whenever you run into someone being disruptive, it doesn’t matter to you if they behave well most of the time. Their behavior in that moment still ruins your game, and that’s what matters.

So how do we improve the behavior of 95% of players as a whole? That’s a tough question, but we believe it's by building solutions that directly impact you and by partnering with you, our players, to create a stronger community together.

Reinforcing Positive Play
Behavioral Systems shouldn't just be about punishing bad players—it should also reward great ones. When we first released Honor 2.0 in 2018, it was the first rewards system of its kind, and we saw an incredible response from you all. But we've failed to update it over the past few years and it's fallen short of your expectations.

This year, we're upping the rewards with a new special recall VFX for players who are Honor 5 or have received an Honor from either a non-premade or two premades in their last game. Similar to the special Challenger recall, you’ll now have the opportunity to sport a special new Honor recall.

"What else?" Did I hear you ask? "Riot would never dedicate a specific new skin just for Honor." Oh, wait... That’s exactly what we're doing! We’re working hard on an exclusive skin just for players who reach Honor 5 as part of the End of Season rewards. These exclusive rewards will give you a new way to show off in-game, in addition to existing Honor skins, chromas, and other rewards. So now’s the time to get your Honor on! Stay tuned for more details.

Taking Action on Champ Select Reports
Another area we lost some of your confidence in is Champ Select reporting. Although we have been monitoring these reports, we didn’t add punishments for them accordingly as promised. Champ Select reports only make up about 3.2% of reports today, but we know that your experience in every part of the game still matters. I’m happy to share that we are tying punishments to Champ Select reports, and you'll see an update on that in a patch coming very soon.

Targeting Widespread Behaviors
Another area we’re focusing on that we know affects the majority of players is Verbal Abuse. There are a number of exciting projects we’re planning, including an upgrade to more advanced models to increase Verbal Abuse detections. We expect to see improvements in this area by up to 10x. While Verbal Abuse isn’t directly reflected in game stats like KDA, it as a widespread issue that often leads to other disruptive behaviors.

While these are just a few steps toward a larger goal, Riot is truly committed to this space, and I will ensure we continue to prioritize it. You can hold me to that.

In turn, I ask you to remember this: When you get frustrated, only you can stop yourself from being disruptive. All 95% of us can support these systems by being the type of player we want to play with—even in Ranked. It’s not always easy, I know, but even the most perfect systems can't prevent all instances of bad behavior from occurring. Because it's not just about building systems to influence human behavior. It's also about the humans who play the game. It's about you. And you're here reading this, so I know you care about our community too.

With your feedback and support, we can shape League's future together. I’m honored to be embarking on this journey together with you.
With the 2022 seasons of both ranked and Clash underway, we wanted to take some time to talk about the state of competitive play as we see it today.

Goals:
As with every season, we like to continually review our goals and evaluate how we’re tracking towards them. Specifically, for competitive play, we focus heavily on:

Competitive Integrity: Players have an even playing field in their competitive matches
Progression Opportunities: Players have meaningful goals to reach for
Team or Organized Play: Players are aware of, and can participate in, opportunities to play with others of similar intent and skill
We evaluate these goals by reviewing player sentiment and other metrics such as match availability (time to queue), quality (are matches competitive and fair), and whether or not matches are compelling to participate in (are they satisfying, do they deliver on player intent, and do they offer a sense of progression). Ultimately, we want to bring everyone a competitive game filled with opportunities that match their individual intent and expectations.

To do this, we try to create experiences in the form of different game modes and mechanics that match your play intent and expectations. For example, Solo/Duo Queue is all about creating a competitive environment to prove your mastery of League at the individual level, while Clash is there to test your mettle as a team. Both experiences have their strengths and weaknesses, but are generally going in the direction we’ve been targeting. Let’s dig in.

What’s Happening Now?
We have some clear issues with our overall matchmaking and queue health that we want to address early in the season. These include the following updates:

Revival MMR: We’ve found that our current systems aren’t as accurate as we’d hoped in maintaining the expected MMR of players that have taken a break from the game, be it a few weeks or a year plus. As such, we’re implementing a more dynamic approach to Revival MMR and MMR decay across all queues that should provide those players with fairer matches in their first 5-10 games back as they rediscover their muscle memory and game knowledge.
Boosting Evaluation: We addressed some boosting issues late last year, but we’re still not happy with the current state of the game here. Looking at Ranked Flex queue in particular, we saw issues with low MMR and high MMR combined premades that abused MMR discrepancy and account sharing to rapidly boost accounts to where they didn’t belong. We addressed this in the short term by restricting the top tier players to only playing with other accounts at similar ranks. We acknowledge there’s a lot more we should do here, and we plan on working directly with our anti-cheat team to identify solutions that will hopefully improve the integrity of Ranked Flex queue.
Challenges Launch: We’re getting close to the launch of Challenges. Its been a complex project with its own unique challenges (pun definitely intended), but we are happy with how expansive we’ve been able to make it and are excited to roll it out to players globally. We’re currently planning for Challenges to go live in patch 12.9!
That said, the launch of Challenges is just the beginning. We plan to continually invest in leveling up Challenges so it lives up to our vision as a robust progression experience for all League players.

Ranked Queue Health and the “Premade Problem”
From a high level viewpoint, Solo/Duo queue is currently in one of the healthiest states we’ve ever seen. Autofill is at its lowest ever global rate hovering between 0.5% and 3% of player games. Queue times are at a 2 year low in many large regions and hovering firm in our small regions. Lastly, MMR accuracy is strong, where 99% of players are playing with those within a maximum of 2 divisions of their rank with a steady win-prediction accuracy to back it up.

That said, we do see issues with Solo/Duo Queue that consistently point to our accommodation of premade duos–this directly adds quality and population volatility into the matchmaking mix. It causes games with duos of imbalanced MMR to impact our autofill/secondary role rates (sometimes double the chances), queue times (~10 second increase for players per game on average), and most importantly-game quality metrics (upwards of a 10% win-rate spread in both directions).

On the flip side, we’ve started to see a significant decline in the health of Ranked Flex queue where queue times (~7 min on average for 3 person parties) and match quality (2-4 division discrepancies between teams) have diverged significantly. The ironic thing here is that the total population in Ranked Flex remains healthy, but the premade distribution and make-up of that population has shifted to a point where it’s difficult to make matches at a quality bar we’d like.

The root cause of this is the high number of 3 person parties that want to play together, with not enough 1s and 2s to fill them out as these solo/duo players can just opt to play a different game mode. This can cause those matchmaking envelopes to expand to a point where queue times and quality expectations cannot reconcile.

Additionally, the difficulties making quality matches for our most popular premade size amplify the impact of disruptive actors in the queue like boosters (who queue as duos with their boostee) and account sellers (who queue as solo) such that the queue itself overall becomes unhealthy, especially at the top level.

To put it simply, our inability to match premades in a compatible way is a detriment to the system that doesn’t have a path to get back to being healthy without significant change.

In the past when we saw this, we attempted to resolve these issues by merging both queues together dynamically. With learnings from Dynamic Queue (which we won’t be revisiting) and a deeper understanding of player intent now, we know that’s not going to work. So what do we do?

What we’re investigating:

Solo Only Mode: In order to match player intent and provide the healthiest competitive individual queue possible, we’re re-evaluating our take on Solo/Duo and exploring a world where solo players play in solo queue and premades play in Ranked Flex or Organized 5’s modes.
On paper, the system health and quality indicators look really good. For example in Solo Only Queue:

We would expect an even further decrease in autofill and secondary rates
Queue times could decrease by up to ~5% for 99.9% of players
Winrate advantages due to team disparities would vanish completely
Boosting would be eradicated
We would expect between-team and within-team MMR for 99% of players to be within one division’s rank of each other during peak hours
In addition, we would likely see the following for our Ranked Flex queue:

An increase in queue population
Drastic improvements to match quality
Significant decrease in queue times for parties of 3
Increase in overall match quality and competitiveness
Increased opportunity for group/organized play
All that said, we absolutely want to be confident that our duo population, which is fairly significant in size, can still find a competitive environment before making any large changes to the current systems. This means re-investing in Ranked Flex queue integrity with our anti-cheat team and finding a natural way for Solo play to connect with Ranked Flex/Clash.

We’re approaching this topic seriously and with care, and will provide an update further on in the year on if it’s an area we can realistically move forward with.

Additional areas of focus include:

Re-evaluating our queue portfolio: We believe a healthy competitive system is more than just ranked modes. It also includes the other game modes like normals and ARAM. This means that in order to keep the game healthy, it’s also important to continually re-visit your other game modes on a regular basis.
We get to ask ourselves “what do changes that make our non-ranked queues as healthy as possible look like?”

Opportunities like:

What does blind pick look like if we guarantee you can get the Champion you want to play and not have to fight for it in Champ Select?
How do the compelling and strategic aspects of Clash expand to something that’s readily available and accessible for all players, yet still engaging for those that like to play with a premade 5s team?
How can we better connect esports with the general public’s play aspirations? How can efforts like Champions Queue be integrated into the core game for the larger player base in the future?
Further Expanding Progression: With the launch of Challenges coming soon, we’re hoping to take stock of the health of our overall progression systems. The intent here is to evaluate the impact of how a broader progression system affects the health of the game. Our expectation is that players who feel that they have meaningful progression options outside of ranked won’t be forced to take part in competitive queues when they otherwise don’t want to. If we find that play patterns for players include more variety for the majority of players, then we can start to focus more on perfecting exciting new features for specific subsets of players that creates a stronger and more unified set of game systems long term.

What you might expect to see are progression options that span into rotating game modes, exciting annual events, and potentially even other core games like Teamfight Tactics.
We’re excited to take a deeper look into our League systems and queues to provide the healthiest long-term version of League that is both competitive and engaging.

As always, see you on the Rift.
Hey all, Ryan “Reav3” Mireles here with another update on Udyr’s VGU, which will come out later this year. Since our last check-in, we’ve entered full production on Udyr, so this post will focus on how he’s looking in-game. But before we get into it, here’s a quick recap of what our goals were going into Udyr’s update:

We want to preserve Udyr’s stance-changing identity and keep him as a primarily auto-attack/melee-focused champion. We think this is what makes Udyr unique and stand out on the roster. To help his gameplay feel more modern, we want to add a bit more interest to his stances and melee pattern to give some more depth to playing him, as well as make it more clear when Udyr is doing something cool (he doesn’t really have a hype gameplay moment right now).
We want to upgrade Udyr’s visuals to modern League standards while keeping his general theme of a warrior shaman intact. Our goal is to build on Udyr’s visuals, not reinvent them.
As for his narrative, we want to bring his in-game portrayal closer to how he’s been portrayed in recent lore and give him stronger ties to the Freljord.
Oh, and in case you haven’t seen the Champions in 2022 video we released today, we decided to remove Udyr’s antlers. We know a lot of you weren’t really digging them, and once we got him in game (as you’ll see below) we felt they weren’t really needed for a unique silhouette.

And with that, on to the new stuff you all came here for!

Antlers or No Antlers?
Jason “OOYOO” Namgung, Character Artist:

Udyr’s rework has been a long time coming, and I was stoked to help recreate one of League’s most “senior” citizens.

When we got started, I assumed that Udyr would be a rather simple and straightforward champ to work on, but that façade wore away very, VERY quickly.

I got started by blocking out a proxy model to get him in-game to start testing our ideas for his visuals and gameplay. But in order to do this, we needed to get his proportions correct because without a good base we’d just be “polishing a turd.” Our goal was to make him feel like a big, strong mountain man, and that became our north star for his body type.

02_Udyr_Model.jpg
ORIGINAL / UPDATE VERSION 1 / UPDATE VERSION 2
While working on his proportions, we ended up removing his antlers. While we really liked the idea of them and we tried a lot to get them to work, we couldn’t get them to not look goofy because of how hunched over he is.

In one attempt they looked like wings, and in another they looked like propellers. No matter how hard we tried to get them to work, they just always looked off. Although the idea was cool, Udyr’s the animal spirit guy, not the antler guy. So ultimately we decided to table the antlers and refocus on his animal spirit fantasy.

After we built out Udyr’s base body, we got started on his stances. And that’s when we realized the mountain man was going to be a bit complicated.

03_Udyr_WIP_Sculpt.jpg
WORK IN PROGRESS OF UDYR’S SCULPT
His base body was pretty straight forward, but his four stances were a major hurdle. Not only were there four of them, but we also had to make sure each one amplified the fantasy of the animal spirit they’re associated with.

We try to create sustainable resources as we go, this way we’re future proofing new champions, making it much easier to develop skins and future updates. We decided to use the same “bones” in each of Udyr’s models to keep things simple for us and help readability in game for players.

04_Udyr_Power_Sculpt.jpg
EVOLUTION OF UDYR’S POWER
This meant we had to do A LOT of iteration to find what felt the best for our big boy. Some were simple while others required 10 or more iterations to get right.

...But that's the fun of game development!

05_Udyr_Beach_Boi.jpg
THICC BOY’S DAY AT THE BEACH
We’re still early in Udyr’s production and everything’s a work in progress, but we’re slowly getting closer to the final look and feel for our big boy. And hopefully all of you will enjoy him when he finally comes out!

Mastering Udyr’s Many Stances
Koingyeal “Koing” Jang, Animator:

Gameplay clarity is really important in League, and I knew Udyr would be challenging because I needed to look at each of his four stances as separate from each other, but still connected—because they needed to feel like Udyr in order to be clear in game. But I also wanted to animate his stances as if they’re four different champions with entirely different characteristics. That way it won’t be confusing to figure out which stance he’s in.

Udyr holds a deep reverence for wild animals, and I wanted that connection to be clear in his animations. Phoenix stance was the most challenging to animate and it took many iterations before I found the right direction.

We wanted his pose to look bird-like, magical, and related to ice, which is... a lot. I also wanted to preserve his wildness, so after much thought, I came up with the wind attack idea.

06_Udyr_VFX1.gif

The idea was to mimic a bird’s wing, with Udyr creating wind with the swipe of his arm. I liked the direction a lot, but there were a few problems: The size of the air made the attack look like it hit multiple enemies instead of just one, and the team wanted this stance to be related to ice more than wind. That meant I needed to go back to the drawing board.

07_Udyr_VFX2.gif

My next idea was to animate Udyr creating ice instead of wind, so that it looked like he was using his magic to attack with the ice. We all liked this direction more than the first iteration with wind, but we were afraid that he looked too magical and lost his wildness aspect that’s key to who he is. That meant I needed to find a good balance between his magical power and inherent wildness.

08_Udyr_VFX3.gif

Next I leaned more into a physical version of ice. And while I really liked this direction, it felt like it lost the connection with birds.

09_Udyr_VFX4.gif

So I changed the stabbing lunge to a swipe to bring in bird-like inspiration from the first idea, but kept the iced wings as a nod to a certain winged Freljordian demigod. The final idea ended up being a blend of everything I did leading up to this point, in true game development fashion. And we’re all really excited with where we ended up.

Udyr has many types of basic attacks, which meant I had to animate it for each stance. My approach to each is pretty much the same: I consider his personality first, and then need to think about the spell's function, all while making sure they feel unique to each stance. Here are some of the others using the same process:



Awakening the Beasts of the Freljord
Luis “Riot Bloois” Aguas, Visual Effects Artist:

Oh deer, it's Udyr. It's also VFX time!

Udyr's VGU gave me a good opportunity to push boundaries in League's VFX style. The first inception of that came from the question, "Can I make Udyr look like he’s in a fighting game and in League?"

Fighting games have always been a genre where you can express individual mastery over a character and its matchups. When I looked at Udyr's new gameplay, I immediately thought of that individual character skill expression you’d find in a fighting game. His stances have different use cases—Bear Stance is great against certain champions in a 1v1 duel, Phoenix Stance is great in an AoE situation, and so on.

I picture an Udyr player knowing when it’s the right time to use the optimal stance, and that being the thing that differentiates between a good Udyr player and a great Udyr player. He’s an incredibly versatile and flexible champion—exactly the type of character I’d want in a fighting game.

But fighting games and League are two different games with two different types of VFX. Where’s the happy medium?

Before we get into examples, let me explain Udyr’s passive, which is what I’ll be talking about: If Udyr is already in a stance and it is on cooldown, he can Awaken it. Each stance has an empowered form or function when it’s Awakened.

With this in mind, his passive should visually make you feel powerful when you Awaken each stance. Going back to my original goal of trying to combine League and a fighting game, I decided to go for heavily stylized, sharp, hard-edged shapes to hit that “powerful feeling.”

12_Udyr_Passive1.gif
FIRST ITERATION OF UDYR’S PASSIVE VFX—I USED A FLAT WHITE COLOR TO FIGURE OUT THE SILHOUETTE BEFORE MOVING ON TO COLORED EFFECTS
After looking at the first iteration I decided that, while cool, the direction didn’t quite fit League’s VFX style. So... now what?

13_Udyr_Passive2.gif

I looked for answers in Udyr’s spiritual energy. What does this power look like after he channels it? How does it feel connected to the spirits he holds dear?

I replaced the hard shapes with softer ones to match League’s VFX style and introduced color to deepen the overall fantasy. But I couldn’t stop thinking about that initial fighting game design, so I had a thought... What if we add everything together and make color the differentiator between his stances?



Exploration of the new combined visual effects

Because there are 4 stances, I needed to create a color palette for each one. These visuals are all using the same exact VFX, with the only exception being their color!



Bear Stance on the left and Ram Stance on the right

This design felt really cool, but nothing actually communicated that Udyr entered a more powerful form. So I decided to tone down the visuals I had and focus on a way to make it clear he was in an enhanced state.

Up until this point I was creating VFX on Udyr’s old model. But around this time OOYOO completed an updated proxy model to give us a better idea of how he’d look in game. This meant that I could start creating VFX based on Udyr’s updated kit and model, instead of just “blue skies”ing ideas on his old one.

Before I got started working with Udyr’s new model, I needed to prioritize which elements of his gameplay are most important to communicate. For example, when you press Q, three things happen:

Udyr enters Bear Stance
Udyr gains bonus attack speed for the next two auto attacks
Udyr gains bonus attack speed for a certain duration
Since the bonus attack speed lasts longer than the Awaken passive, that gets a higher visual priority. But even higher than that is making it clear which stance is Udyr in.

In League, we typically communicate an auto attack enhancement by applying VFX to a champion’s hands. In Udyr’s case, I added lightning VFX to his Bear Stance’s bear claws to indicate that Udyr’s auto attacks are doing something extra. There were three visuals I needed to create, with each one unique but still feeling connected to the others: The idle VFX with bear claws active, the stance activation with the active Awaken buff, and his passive’s Awaken VFX cast and buffs.

18_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Idle.gif
UDYR’S BEAR STANCE IDLE VFX
19_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Activation_Buff.gif
UDYR’S BEAR STANCE ACTIVATION
20_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Awaken_Buff.gif
UDYR’S PASSIVE AWAKEN CAST AND BUFF VFX
You might notice some of the visual language from my early “fighting game” exploration and that’s because... it’s there! I was able to combine sharp shapes with thematic lightning hooks and soft blending to ground it within League’s VFX style while still giving it something uniquely Udyr.

Then I needed to move on to the effects when you interact with enemies. When Udyr’s Bear stance is Awakened, your next two auto attacks will arc chain lightning to your primary target and then spread nearby enemies. (Sound familiar?)

21_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Chain_Lightning.gif

Furthermore, when this arc of lightning hits a single target and doesn’t bounce to others, it’ll do increased damage. Kind of like a big lightning bear when he’s mauling your face.

22_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Lightning.gif

And that wraps up what I’ve got to share for Udyr’s VFX! As a reminder, everything I’ve shared is a work in progress, and the final product may still end up a bit different than the direction we currently have. I hope you like what you’ve seen here, and I can’t wait to see what you think when you get your claws on him. Thanks everyone~!

Channeling the Dragon Spirit
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist:

Udyr has just a few very classic, very well-known skins in his catalog (Spirit Guard, anyone?), and as we were figuring out his base, we were keeping ideas for his skins in the back of our dev brains. We decided to start with his most recent, Dragon Oracle.

It’s a great looking skin with an excellent thematic, so there’s a lot to keep with some things that need to be adjusted to match his new character. Also, the dragon thematics and colors will easily translate to what the new-dyr is here to represent.

We wanted to do our due diligence by going wide with the explorations—we have a pretty solid understanding of this dragon world now thanks to the extensive amount of skins—so we focused on a few different areas. We decided early on that he should remain on the mystical dragon side of things, and not among the draconic division of dragonslayers—he still channels the dragon spirits for just a hint of their power. But that left us asking, how dragon-y should he look? How physically affected is he by the animal spirits he channels? (That will forever be a question on Udyr!) 

23_Dragon_Oracale_First_Spread.jpg

We decided to keep Udy more human than dragon to show that he’s in control of the draconic power he’s summoning. Some dragon elements will be cool for this skin, some scales, and definitely horns! But overall we want to keep his arms and shoulders free to show off his stances and animations.

24_Dragon_Oracle_Second_Spread.jpg

Next we’re honing some of the more minor details for his base before doing the in-game version and concepting the dragon form stances!

25_Dragon_Oracle_Third_Spread.jpg

And here’s where we’re heading with this skin: getting into the in-game view and his ortho for modeling.

There’s lots more to come on Udyr skins, so keep an eye out for these in a later update!

26_Dragon_Oracle_Udyr_Concept.jpg

What Comes Next?
As you can see we’ve made a lot of progress and we think his base is coming along nicely. I think it’s worth sharing that Udyr does have quite a few skins, and the nature of his form swapping makes each one take longer than the average champion would—not to mention he also has an Ultimate skin.

Given all that, we still have a ways to go before we can finally get the new Udyr into your hands. We want to make sure we get him and his skins right before he releases into the wild, and we’ll be sure to keep you updated in future champion roadmaps once we have a clearer picture.
Hey everyone! We’re the audio folks who worked on Caitlyn’s new theme as part of her Art & Sustainability Update. We want to share what went into composing her theme and a little something extra we made for all of you. So sit back, remember that Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge, and prepare to get musical.

A Little Piltover, A Lotta Sheriff
Senior Composer Alexander “Scherzo” Temple:
When working on any champion’s theme, we need to start by looking at where in Runeterra they come from. Piltover’s musical palette has historically been defined by orchestral pieces that emphasize patterns and precision. You can hear it in things like Camille’s or Seraphine’s themes and LoR boards, for example.

Piltover’s the home of inventors, scientists, and dreamers. It’s a really harmonious place, but underneath the harmony there’s a certain degree of neutrality—uncertainty, even. But it almost feels as if no one’s quite sure all this advancement will always be a good thing. This led us to try introducing a few unexpected dissonances throughout the music.

We wanted Caitlyn’s musical language to feel consistent with the Piltovan music that already exists, but not so restrictive that we couldn’t differentiate between her and Piltover overall.

01_FoxConsole_Web.jpg

We found that a combination of “found” percussion like clocks and gears mixed with various types of rhythmic zithers, keys, and strings felt uniquely Piltovan. From there, we included a more expanded take on the traditional orchestra to give us a bigger range for the stories we want to tell, while still feeling like an extension of existing Piltovan music.

But I still felt we needed something that didn’t just represent Piltover. Something that just represented Caitlyn. So when I looked at who she is, the thing that stuck out was her wealthy, aristocratic background.


I used small ornaments and flourishes throughout her theme that sound like they might come from established musical traditions of Piltover’s high society, but in ways that felt more like vestigial trappings than core elements. They represent a part of who she is, but a part that doesn’t wholly define her.

02_Alex_Brendon_Notes_Web.jpg

Melodically, what I settled on was actually giving Caitlyn a pair of themes combined into one. The A theme has elements of intricacy and precision that’s meant to reflect the inquisitive, fiercely intelligent side of her. The B theme is more lyrical, steady, and purposeful, with an unhurried confidence that I felt captured her righteous side. It also happens to be a variation of one that I wrote as a shared theme for her and her family, but I re-framed it to have a bit of “against the grain” individuality for Caitlyn alone. Without getting too technical, I found a harmonic progression that had one spicy chord that shook things up just enough to add that individuality, without tipping the needle so far that it felt like we were no longer in Piltover.


EZREAL’S GEARS BREAK DOWN FIRST” - A PILTOVAN MUSIC THEORIST... PROBABLY
Sound Designer Emmanuel “Riot Gunlap” Lagumbay:
In addition to Caitlyn’s full orchestral theme, we wanted to try something new... A piano arrangement! And we wanted to release the sheet music for all you piano players out there!

We’ve seen (and heard) plenty of covers of the music from League over the last decade, and it’s always a pleasure to listen to what you all come up with. This time, we wanted to help out by giving you access to an official piano version that can be played on a solo instrument. Because—let’s be real—not everyone has a band or orchestra at home!

03_HarlanandAlex_SheetMusic_Web.jpg

Download the Piano Arrangement

The piano version is arranged and performed by Harlan Hodges, who you may have heard performing piano on Viego’s theme. Harlan worked to capture the full orchestration from Scherzo’s original score, and while we originally thought this piece would be a little easier to perform, we ended up with a Challenger-level piano piece. That being said, with a couple of listens, and a few adjustments, it can still be simplified and made easier to play while retaining the core musical material that represents Caitlyn.

We’ve also got some of his thoughts on the process, and some tips for you as you get to learning the piece!

A Change in Tempo
Arranger and Pianist Harlan Hodges:
It was crucial for me to identify all the character-driven musical elements that were spread out across the orchestral composition to figure out what would work for a solo piano version. The tricky part in an arrangement like this is not only finding those elements, but also not reducing them down so much that it loses the composer’s original character and intent.

It can be very hard to take an orchestral score and make it “feel” like a piano piece. I felt like the best way for me to find the important material was to learn the entire piece by ear and play some basic things along with the recording before looking at any of the actual scores. Whatever stood out to my ear that I could easily learn is what I gravitated towards as stuff we couldn’t lose.

04_HarlanPianoWeb.jpg


In terms of practicing and performing the piece, you have to allow your body to memorize all the large leaps between your hands toward the end. Practice this at slower tempos and sink into the keys. This will help you get a feel for how far the jumps are without having to look at both of your hands, and try to relax as much as possible on the ostinatos and repeated figures so they don’t feel rushed. There’s some tricky detail in the triplets on the right hand and dynamics as well, so don’t be afraid to slow down or go down one dynamic marking! Although difficult, I think anyone tackling it will really enjoy the reward of having learned it because it is a challenge. It’s very fun to have under your hands.


We hope you enjoy Caitlyn’s new theme as much as we enjoyed bringing it to you, and we can’t wait for you all to experience Caitlyn’s journey in Arcane. And of course, we want to hear your performances of Caitlyn’s theme! Please tag us on social media so we can find you!
We've made a commitment to share updates on what we've been doing to improve the performance and reliability of the League Client. Today's update is the ninth blog in the series. (See the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth here!)
TL;DR—We updated the CEF (Chromium Embedded Framework) web browser at the heart of the League Client in patch 11.17 and have seen significantly improved memory usage, lower CPU utilization, and fewer crashes. With this, we can now focus on planning more frequent updates to improve the reliability and performance of the client!

Updating Chromium Embedded Framework (CEF)

It's a big moment for the Client Cleanup Campaign! Back in the beginning of the year, we determined that updating the client's version of Chromium Embedded Framework (CEF)—a.k.a. the web browser at the heart of the League Client's architecture—to version 91 would be the most impactful thing we could do to improve the client. (For context, the last time we updated it was back in November 2019 to version 74...) The benefits of updating CEF are two-fold: First, it immediately improves memory usage, CPU utilization, and stability. Second, it unlocks our ability to do many future improvements since it comes with newer features and tools (more on that in a sec). These reasons made updating CEF our top priority of the year, so we're super happy to announce we successfully launched the update to version 91 in patch 11.17 with great results so far!

Fewer Client Crashes
Upgrading CEF helped us address a lot of client crashes, and our goal is to continue addressing the ones that impact players the most. We're happy to see a 61% drop in crashes since 11.16 and a 38% drop from the average rate in 2021 so far, and we plan to keep driving those numbers down. In fact, early data from patch 11.18 shows another big drop in crashes! This is a huge win since we have a large number of client startups in any given patch (which can be upwards of 240 million in our Riot Regions!)

Patch

Number of Crashes

11.14

2,349,865

11.15*

3,686,442

11.16

3,161,145

11.17

1,214,155

(* 11.15 had a longer patch cycle, explaining the higher count here.)

The top culprit behind the remaining crashes seems to be machines running out of memory. After digging a bit deeper, we noticed that almost half of these out-of-memory crashes were on old PCs running Windows 7. While some players worldwide do play League on old PCs running Windows 7 (our current minspec), we're going to investigate how many of these cases are bots, unlicensed/out-of-date copies of Windows, or other circumstances that aren't representative of regular players legitimately playing League.

Reduced Memory Usage
We've seen a significant decrease in the client's front-end memory usage during a single session. The front-end of the client refers to the visual elements that players interact with like buttons, text fields, and pretty much everything you can see and click on. In our Riot Regions, here's the breakdown:

CEF Version

20th percentile players (faster machines)

50th percentile players (medium spec machines)

90th percentile players (slower spec machines)

74 (pre-patch 11.17)

359 MB

597 MB

1016 MB

91 (patch 11.17+)

74 MB

275 MB

598 MB

Improvement

285 MB (79%)

322 MB (54%)

418 MB (41%)

Memory in this context is sort of like attention—the more it's freed up, the more room your computer has to multitask or focus on what it's already doing. This means fewer client crashes and more memory available so you can watch LCS streams and queue up for ranked at the same time!

Lower CPU Utilization
We've also seen a decrease in the amount of CPU power the client now uses. Here's the breakdown in our Riot Regions:

CEF Version

20th percentile players ( faster machines)

50th percentile players (medium spec machines)

90th percentile players (slower spec machines)

74 (pre-patch 11.17)

13%

34%

83%

91 (patch 11.17+)

10%

22%

72%

Percent Drop

23%

35%

15%

This means your computer doesn't have to work as hard to run the client, leading to cooler processors and less power consumption. Videos, for example, are very taxing on the CPU, whereas the League Client shouldn’t be. Basically, more Netflix and Pentakill.

What does a newer version of CEF unlock for us?
Chromium-based apps
Chromium-based apps are some of the fastest-growing tools and programs in software development today. You’re probably already using a Chromium app to read this article, to chat in Discord with your friends, and to listen to that playlist of the same 10 songs on repeat for the 100th time. Every single one of those applications use Chromium, and so does the client. Updating the client's Chromium Embedded Framework version gives us access to Chromium's newer features and improvements.

WebAssembly
Next let’s talk about WebAssembly, a code format that can run complex instructions much faster than base JavaScript, which is what many apps in the client still run on (remember "ember apps" from earlier blogs?). CEF basically emulates a specialized "mini-computer" within the client that uses WebAssembly to process code more efficiently. Because WebAssembly supports a wide variety of programming languages, it makes reusing existing code easier while also giving us the performance advantage that comes with running processes in that specialized "mini-computer" (rather than launching a separate application). WebAssembly is slowly being adopted across the web, and support in Chromium improves with each release. Having access to WebAssembly will make the client faster and let us do things we couldn't do before.

Web Workers
Then there’s Web Workers. Historically, Chromium apps run synchronously, meaning they process one line of code at a time. That's like having one single worker on the entire factory line, whereas Web Worker*S* scale up the team so you can run multiple lines of code alongside each other. A Chat Web Worker could handle all things chat, while the main client focuses on getting you into a game. So if you've got a particularly talkative friend asking you for Teemo build suggestions, that conversation would no longer slow down the rest of your client experience. Web Workers will also make the client faster.

Even without writing new code to take advantage of these new features, updating CEF alone has already made the client faster thanks to better handling of the JavaScript we've already written. As we improve other areas of the client, we can focus on methods that work well with native performance improvements.

Other Updates
We've also made progress on the End Of Game (EOG) experience since our last blog post. First things first, we added some code to collect data on exactly what's going on during the stalled "Waiting for Stats" page that players are still experiencing. This helped us identify and improve the delay time since it really shouldn't be as long as it currently is. We also shipped a fix in 11.17 that reduced the chance of that page completely freezing. Additional fixes to the game engine were pushed to speed up EOG even more in 11.19. And—last but not least!—we're excited to integrate Challenges and are doing our due diligence to make sure this new feature doesn't impact the client's performance and reliability.

What’s Next
Our CEF update proved to be extremely valuable in improving the client, so we're establishing a more frequent update schedule (instead of once every 1.5 years, lolz). As for the rest of 2021, we will continue to prioritize the reliability of the client, address EOG with the Challenges team, address high-frustration bugs, and continue to improve our code to improve your experience. Thanks for joining us in celebrating this huge milestone on the Client Cleanup Campaign! See you in the next one.
Hey players, BarackProbama and TimTamMonster here, the design and product leads for League’s Behavioral Systems Team. We know that AFKs and leavers are some of the most disruptive behaviors you face, so we're happy to be coming to you today with an update around AFK and Leaver punishments, which we last talked about in April before temporarily tunneling in on Queue Dodging.

One small note for the rest of this article—we'll be referring to the combination of AFK (idle behavior) and Leaving (intentional or otherwise) as just AFK.

Our approach to reducing the frequency of AFKs in games has a few prongs:

Add additional tiers to our penalty structure so that players who continue to AFK/leave consistently, incur these new punishments
Add a new penalty type to shield players from repeat offenders
Improve the way we evaluate attempts to reform in our games
Let’s get into it.

New Penalty Type
Up until now, we've penalized AFKing with Queue Delays. Queue Delays are a speed bump on an offending player’s way to their next few games: Upon clicking the play button, the queue blocks them behind a short timer. The purpose of this is to change behavior. If someone who goes AFK gets to experience what having their time wasted is like, they are less likely to perpetrate it in the future. For most folks Queue Delays work well, but about 9% of our players worldwide engage in consistent AFK behavior and don’t seem to be deterred by a few delays between their games.

091721_PieGraph_AFK_Update_v2.jpg

For players who continue to AFK we are introducing a new penalty: Queue Lockouts, which are basically like mega-delays. When a player experiences a Queue Lockout, they will have a popup displayed explaining their punishment and will be unable to start games in MOBA queues. When we issue a Queue Lockout, we're not saying "hey, doesn't it suck to have your time wasted?" We're removing the player from the population for a while so they can't continue to AFK in games. Once a queue lockout does expire, it's followed by the maximum-level queue delay so we can still maintain the benefits of behavior modification and players who take a break don’t get to sit out their entire punishment. Queue Lockouts apply to all MOBA queues.

An important note is that any player that is currently at a very high tier will be reset to Tier 3. They will get a chance to reform before the Queue Lockouts begin.

This table shows the new tiers as well as their associated lockouts and delays.

Tier

Queue Lockout

Queue Delay

0

None

0 minutes

1

None

5 minutes for 5 games

2

None

10 minutes for 5 games

3

None

15 minutes for 5 games

4 (new tier)

1 day

15 minutes for 5 games

5 (new tier)

3 days

15 minutes for 5 games

6 (new tier)

7 days

15 minutes for 5 games

7 (new tier)

14 days

15 minutes for 5 games

Tier level is not a time-based system. The best (and only) way to lower your penalty tier is to play games without going AFK—you can't just wait it out.

Evaluating Behavior
One challenge we discovered within our existing system was that once a player had reached a high penalty tier it was very difficult for them to lower it even through repeated demonstrations of good behavior. We’ve moved to a more sophisticated model that looks at multiple factors and will be much more effective in moving reformed players down the tiers than the previous one. That said, consistently AFKing will still be detected and consistent offenders will still be doinked.

These changes enabled us to create Queue Lockouts, since it means that we have higher certainty that a player at a high AFK tier is actually being consistently disruptive and isn’t stuck there for other reasons, like intermittent connectivity issues, which can be particularly common in some regions.

Looking Forward
As this is rolled out, we are committed to continue to monitor AFKs, both in regards to the frequency of this behavior and regional specific connectivity issues. We want to ensure we are being equitable across all regions who may experience different levels of connectivity. To be safe, we're going to start by testing these changes in a few regions before rolling them out globally; keep an eye on the patch notes for status updates.

This is not the final word on AFKs. We’re working across teams on gameplay to address some of the root causes of these issues such as:

Not enough ability to come back from behind
Inability to deal with other disruptive behavior in game
Connectivity challenges
We'll have more to share on these subjects in future updates!
Hi everyone, today we’re ready to give an update on the champion you all chose for a VGU earlier this year: Udyr. We’ve been sharing our progress with all major VGUs recently, and not only have you all seemed to really like it, but we’ve also gotten some great feedback early enough to actually affect the direction of the projects. So this feels like a win/win for everyone!

Before we get to the meat of it, let's recap why we chose Udyr and what our goals are. Udyr made it to the VGU poll because he’s one of the last really, really visually outdated champions in the game. Beyond that, his gameplay is over a decade old, and it FEELS like it (unlike, let’s say Lee Sin, who still feels pretty good after all these years).

With that in mind, our main goals for Udyr’s update are…

Preserve Udyr’s stance-changing identity and keep him as a primarily auto-attack/melee-focused champion. We think this is what makes Udyr unique and stand out on the roster. To help his gameplay feel more modern, we’ll be looking to add a bit more interest to his stances and melee pattern to give some more depth to playing him, as well as make it more clear when Udyr is doing something cool (he doesn’t really have a hype gameplay moment right now).
We want to upgrade Udyr’s visuals to modern League standards while keeping his general theme of a warrior shaman intact. Our goal is to build on Udyr’s visuals, not reinvent them.
As for his narrative, we want to bring his in-game portrayal closer to how he’s been portrayed in recent lore and give him stronger ties to the Freljord.
With that, three of the devs currently working on Udyr will go more in-depth on what we’re exploring for Udyr’s gameplay, art, and narrative design.

Shifting Stances
Stash “Stashu” Chelluck, Gameplay Designer:

Hello! Riot Stashu here, and I’d like to talk a bit about how our man-bear-phoenix’s gameplay has been coming along.

I was pretty thrilled when I got the Udyr update because Udyr and I go wayyyy back. I’ve played League for over a decade now, but I still remember the awe I felt when I first scrolled through Udyr’s kit in the shop all those years ago—all melee, no ultimate!? The mad man. I was intrigued and began my stance dancing journey asap. I first learned how to jungle with phoenix Udyr, but soon took him up top lane and had a blast first-blooding my unsuspecting opponents with the unfair red potion + tiger stance start. Eventually I got more into playing champions that had a few more tricks up their sleeves, but me and Udyr spent a long time together kicking butt and he’ll always have a special place in my heart.

06_29_21_02_the_Udyr.jpg

Since Udyr’s early days, it feels like just about everything else about League has changed, and yet somehow his classic style has weathered it all. Even in today’s faster paced, longer-ranged, bigger-and-scarier world, Udyr somehow manages to keep up and throw down with the best of them using his brutally simple kit. His popularity has waxed and waned over the years, but somehow there have always been plenty of players in his corner ready to stance dance and maul their way through the Rift (especially recently, after seeing him clean up in the competitive split).

So! What I’m getting at is that while his straight-forward melee style might not be everyone’s cup of tea, it’s clear that Udyr’s gameplay has stood the test of time. The all-melee brawler has carved out a clear niche for himself, so the plan is to stay true to the Udyr we all know and love with this VGU. You may ask, then, why are we updating his gameplay if he’s so great? Well! We think the core of Udyr is really strong, but see two main areas for improvement:

Variance/High Moments: Udyr’s pace of play is pretty consistent from the moment he dings level two. With no ultimate or other high-power options and a passive that says “always be castin’,” Udyr is constantly churning out medium/low-impact spells and doesn’t hit those jaw-dropping moments that other champions can produce. We’d like to mix this up a little bit, and introduce a few moments where everyone can look over and see Udyr doing something a little more visibly awesome and powerful.

Thematic Execution: Udyr’s “Animal-Shaman-X-Martial-Artist” theme is pretty cool in a vacuum, but doesn’t feel connected to Runeterra in a satisfying way; if Udyr can channel the greatest spiritual powers of the Frejlord, what’s up with the turtle and the monkey? There’s nothing wrong with these animals per se, and we want to keep true to Udyr when possible, but we think that by making a few thematic tweaks, we can make an Udyr that has far more exciting connections to the world around him and to those that would fight him for it. Whatever theming changes we make here, the gameplay will embrace them to really make Udyr shine.

So to summarize, Udyr’s gameplay update will address: adding variance (and high moments) and delivering more strongly on a theme (see the narrative section for a bit more there!). With that in mind, the rest of the design team and I discussed what we believed to be core to Udyr, and decided to try to preserve the following:

Udyr’s kit has four basic abilities that change stances (no ultimate)
Udyr has no aimed/ranged abilities or significant dashes (he’s all-melee)
Udyr can deal and/or withstand a lot of damage, based on build
Udyr can max different stances and plays differently when he does (Tiger vs Phoenix)
With the higher level stuff sorted, we got to work. How did it go in practice? Well, the team brainstormed a bunch of possible ways to heighten Udyr’s high moments. We came up with directions like: Udyr permanently gains a super-buff based on whichever stance he maxes first, Udyr can have two stances active at once, Udyr has an ultimate that turns him into the avatar of whichever current stance he’s in, and dozens more.

Finally after much paper kitting and vetting, we were excited to try a version of Udyr where he got a similar set of four stances as always, but occasionally gets to use a “super version” of each stance.

The original pitch for this “super stance” kit was that stances would passively grow in power as they went unused, such that if Udyr didn’t cast a stance for several minutes it would be SUPER CHARGED and have some special and more powerful effect. Everyone was excited about their forgotten stance occasionally being worth casting, so we tried it out. It had some mixed results; managing this power up was awkward and often ran counter to the things the player naturally wanted to do, but having the power up and using the super-verison of a stance was actually very exciting!

After many iterations and variants of “super stance,” we think there might be something here. Today we’re playing around with kits where Udyr can recast his active stance to use the super version (on a cooldown). We’re still considered other possible directions, but here’s Udyr casting some [experimental] stances and recasting them:

His secondary resource bar indicates the recast cooldown, but the CD was reduced dramatically for this capture.

(Also, yes, that’s a skillshot in there. We experimented with breaking some of those core Udyr rules; it’s good practice to test our assumptions to see if they’re more constraining than useful. In this case, the “all melee” constraint seemed correct so we decided to stick to it.)

My next plan is to explore just how far super stances can go. Should they be simple upgrades to the base stance, or can they be a little more differentiated? What are the craziest effects we can add on empowers? And so on.

And that’s about it! Now remember, we’re still at the point where nearly all of this can change, but I’m feeling pretty good about where we’re going. Thanks for reading, I’m so glad to have been able to share our progress with everyone!

Going into Beast-Mode
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist:

Udyr has been around for a long time—AND has seen a lot of things happen in the world of Runeterra. He's a very unique champion in our roster because he has immense spirit power that he channels in combat, which denotes an extreme ability to have discipline, but his outset appearance is very organic, primal, and almost humble in a way, like that of a monk. No crazy huge armor, extra limbs, demon horns, or anything of that sort, but a primal battle-ready confidence that only someone from the Freljord can possess.

From the first explorations we shared in April, we as a team centered around the Mountain Brawler, Wild Druid, and MMA Shaman, and were even more confident when you all keyed in on those same iterations. We may use some of the other initial explorations as inspiration for his Spirit Guard skin, like for example the Deity Invoker. For base Udyr, we want his melee-feel to take priority because at the end of the day, he still physically attacks his enemies. The Spirit Guard skin leans more into the spirit realm (obviously), so we can get away with more spirit energy visuals there, and then both can have their own unique space.

06_29_21_04_Udyr_First_Spread_riotearp.jpg

Now that we had direction for his base character, I wanted to explore how to visually represent the animal spirit energy he channels.

06_29_21_05_Udyr_Secondary_Exploration_riotearp.jpg

From there my goal was to organize his thematics into three visual pillars (at least in my mind to help me understand his thematic hierarchy):

Freljordian primal shaman: Denoted by antlers, long hair and feathers/trinkets in hair.
Strong melee fighter channeling animal spirits: The big hook here is his body type—-strong but not cut, muscular but not a bodybuilder, with simple fighter rope on his hands/knuckles, giving him the space on his arms to represent what animal he is channeling while his horns would signify the corresponding element (electricity, fire, etc.).
Traveling spirit walker: His travels to Ionia have given him the discipline needed to hone those powers and strengthen his connection to the spirit realm (bead necklace, Ionian rope belt, tattoos/markings).
06_29_21_06_Udyr_Costuming_riotearp.jpg

I'll be first to admit Udyr’s hair was a bit off in the first spread, and lots of you called us out on that! The intent was to give him a cleaner style, almost like that of a fighting game character in order to denote his melee combat abilities, but in doing so I strayed too far from Udyr's shamanistic wandering lifestyle. He's out in the woods, not in the streets, so we explored some options that were more influenced by his lifestyle and wild man aesthetic.

06_29_21_07_Udyr_Hair_Explorations_riotearp.jpg

In refining his overall design, we thought it would be way cooler and more unique if Udyr had tattoos of the animals whose spirit energy he channels. The antlers around his head add a lot to his silhouette, and is a very universal shaman visual. Although we tried versions where he had the antlers on his shoulders, it felt more like an armor set and less interesting than when they were around his head, so I also needed to work out how that attachment worked. Also, he’s a hairy dude!

06_29_21_08_Udyr_Design_Refinement_riotearp.jpg

Next we will be figuring out what each stance will look like—we want to make each stance as powerful-feeling and indicative of the Freljordian animals as possible. Lots to do still, but we wanted to share where we’re headed!

Finding Udyr’s Voice(s?)
Dana Luery “griddlebones” Shaw, Narrative Writer:

One of the first things the team discussed when we started working on Udyr was that he’s got some really cool lore already. Skiptomyluo’s short story “A Walk with the Voices” and WAAAARGHbobo’s “Silence for the Damned” both paint a picture of a man in conflict with spirits, humans, animals, gods, and himself most of all. He’s a man who struggles to walk the line between animal instinct and practiced mastery, between the physical world and the spirits, between overwhelming connection and icy isolation. He lives in this interesting in-between space, where all of these pieces of himself are in conflict with one another and yet he has managed to find the balance within that conflict, to find himself among the endless voices of others.

To me, that’s not a champion that needs a rework, that’s a champion that just needs an update.

We’re not changing much of Udyr’s lore, but we are diving deeper into who he is, how his mind works, how his abilities work, why he fights, why he fights the way that he does, and what his connection to the Freljord looks like. I’d like to bring that idea of “balance within conflict” to the forefront, with his belief that the Freljord thrives on struggle and obstacles and combat, and that peace would be its ultimate undoing. When Udyr fights, he’s fighting to keep the balance of the Freljord by using two sources of strength and tension—physical prowess and spiritual power.

But if Udyr is fighting for the Freljord, with the spirits of the Freljord at his beck and call, you wouldn’t know it from his current stances. Most of his current abilities are linked to animals that sound Ionian, which, sure, he spent many years training there. However, he came of age in the tundra, intensely familiar with its mystical landscape and needs, and has returned to his homeland. Isn’t it time that Udyr’s abilities reflected his home and his heritage?

We’re exploring a few options, but the one I find most compelling is linking his abilities to those of the most powerful spirits in the north: the demigods. Volibear, Anivia, Ornn, and… did you know that there were others? The lore names at least two more. Udyr wouldn’t be drawing on their power directly (“Silence for the Damned” illustrates why that would be a bad idea—Volibear, at least, can exert control over people who tap into his power), but perhaps the animals that most closely resemble the demigods are enveloped in their spiritual energy and can lend him their own enhanced strength.

And though the demigods are the most powerful beings of the Freljord, they aren’t necessarily the most powerful beings in the Freljord. Those would be far beneath the ice, under the watchful eyes of the same people who killed Udyr’s tribe when he was young. Perhaps there’s a connection there, another path for Udyr’s story to walk...

What’s Next?
We’re planning to release Udyr in 2022, so you can expect the next /dev blog towards the end of the year, once we enter full production. In the meantime, we’d love to hear what you think so far: What excites you? What would you want to see more of? Does anything feel untrue to Udyr? We’ll be reading through your thoughts and feedback, as we want your help in making the best warrior-animal-shaman-martial-artist-monk possible.
Hi everyone, lately I’ve been noticing more players in various places talking about how we’ve been making more human champions and fewer monsters. This was an intentional shift on the Champions Team, so I thought it’d be good to go over our thinking so you can better understand how we got here.

New Ways to Play
First, let’s start with why we still make new champions, since for me “because we’ve always made new champions” isn’t really a strong enough answer.

The main reason we continue to make new champions is that we believe part of League’s magic is its never-ending mastery curve. Learning new things is fun and keeps players excited to keep playing. Once you’ve learned everything about a game, it can start to become less engaging. While new players have plenty of new things to try and learn in League, we have millions of players that have been playing for years—some even since League first launched.

02_Warwick_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

Preseason is one of the ways to majorly shake up and improve the game once a year, but champions are how we add new gameplay mechanics at a more consistent and regular interval. Every new champion we create adds new gameplay to learn to play as or against, which is one of the reasons why we try to ensure all new champions have a unique playstyle.

The kicker here though is that for new champions to hit their goal, they need to be picked and played in games. If they aren't played much, then they don’t really achieve their goal of adding something new for many players to learn. This isn’t to say that all champs need to achieve this goal, as part of the fun in League is playing against that really niche champ you don’t see that often but that really mixes up the game when you do. Niche champions can also deeply resonate with a smaller number of players in a way broadly-appealing champions could never do.

Theme is Queen
With all that in mind, back in 2017 we made it a more explicit goal to ship more broadly-appealing champions. We did a lot of research into what makes a champion broadly appealing or niche by surveying players all over the world. What we found was that one of the major things that made a champion more relatable and appealing was when they were human. There are many other factors of course, like how attractive, dark, powerful, edgy, cute, fashionable, skillful, etc. a champion is. But with the exception of a few outliers (like Kha’Zix and Yuumi), almost every champion that’s broadly played is a humanoid of some kind. Humans just seem to be more relatable to other humans—it’s probably why so much fiction in our world revolves around people.

I know some of you are going to say, “Doesn’t the gameplay matter more than the theme or visuals? If monster champs had better kits, then more people would play them.” While this is true to an extent, it’s only true for some players—in fact based on our data, it looks like a champion’s playrate is a combination of actual power, perceived power, and thematic resonance, with theme being one of the BIG parts of that equation.

03_Xin_Zhao_Splash_5_26_21.jpg

One of the ways you can see evidence of this is by looking at the different playrates of some champions from region to region. Champions don’t have different gameplay in different regions, and yet Jinx is more popular in western regions (where the punk rock aesthetic is more resonant) than eastern regions. In contrast, Xin Zhao and Jarvan are more popular in China. Yasuo is popular everywhere, but he is extremely popular in eastern regions. And it’s not just those examples: Champion popularity varies between regions and a lot of the variance can be linked to how resonant that type of theme is in that region.

We also see a heavy connection between champions that rate highly on the survey question,“Do you like this champion’s theme?” and their popularity. There are outliers of course, like if a champion’s kit is so esoteric that it hinders people from playing them, even if they like their theme. This can cause a champion with a broadly-appealing theme to have a much lower playrate than expected. Aurelion Sol, for example, generally gets very high scores for theme and visuals but very low scores for gameplay, and ends up a lot more niche than a dragon-themed champ ought to be.

04_Aurelion_Sol_Splash_5_26_21.jpg

Also when I talk about play rate, I’m referring to all PvP game modes where players select a champion. In solo queue, the higher up the ladder you go, the more a champion’s power drives pick rate (rather than theme), but high MMR is a very small percentage of League’s total playerbase. Because having a champion you love is a major factor in whether someone continues to play League, regardless of rank, we tend to consider the entire playerbase when designing champions.

The Rise of the Humans
So now that we’ve covered that engagement is the primary reason we make new champions and that theme impacts engagement, let’s talk about how we got to where we are today.

We started to subtly shift our strategy back in 2017 as we began to make a clearer framework around broad and niche appeal. Then in 2018, the Champions Team made it an official strategy to target 70% broadly-appealing champions and 30% niche champions. We also include VGUs in the breakdown since they also drive engagement and usually bring new mechanics to learn.

Going back to our main goal for champions (engagement), if we were to release two niche VGUs in a year, and also a few niche champions, then overall we wouldn't really be driving very high engagement. So the main reason for the shift to making more broadly-appealing new champions, and thus more humans, started officially back in 2018.

Recently though, there’s been a second reason we’ve continued to make a large amount of human champions. That reason is that representation has been a larger goal for the Champions Team in the last couple years, and we’ve been trying to make more champions that are inspired by different cultures around the world. And while Runeterra isn’t Earth—so our goal isn’t to make champs that perfectly reflect real world locations—we have made a stronger effort to make champions inspired by regions everywhere. We want all players to be able to see themselves in the games they play, and League champs are no exception.

05_Samira_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

This is something we’ve become really passionate about on the Champions Team, which you’ll see reflected in some of our recent (and upcoming) champions. For example, Samira was inspired by Persian culture, Viego by conquistador-era Spanish culture, and so on. To do good cultural representation though, you almost certainly need to make humans, or at least champions that are close enough to humans that people can relate to and identify with them. So this is another reason we’ve been doing more humans recently.

All That Said…
Even with all of this, we think we’ve leaned a bit too heavy on straight-up humans in the last couple years. Lately we’ve been making one non-human a year, but that also included human-ish champions (like yordles) or semi-human champions (like Lillia), as well as creatures like Yuumi. We reflected on that and decided to instead group champions into 3 categories rather than 2 (human and non-human). The three new categories are human, humanoid, and creatures.

06_Vel_Koz_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

Humans include any champion that is mostly human, or very close to it, like Lucian, Senna, Yone, Pyke, and Jhin. Humanoids include any champion that is half human, or at least are pretty close anatomically to a human, like Lillia, Urgot, Renekton, Aatrox, yordles, and so on. The last category is creatures, which includes any champion that doesn’t resemble a human at all, like Rek’Sai, Vel’Koz, Yuumi, Aurelion Sol, Skarner, etc. It’s worth noting that this isn’t an exact science (is Zac more humanoid or creature?), but the general categories are helpful.

"Monster" isn't one of the categories because that's more about aesthetic than anatomy. Aatrox and Renekton are examples of monstrous humanoids, whereas Yuumi is an example of a non-monstrous creature.

We have plans to make a new creature champion in 2022 since it’s been a while, the last one being Yuumi. While it made sense to make a cute creature like Yuumi since the game was lacking in cute creatures, we want the next one to be on the darker side. This doesn’t mean we’ll do a full creature every year, as they are pretty niche, but we do want to make more non-human champions going forward.

07_Renekton_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

I hope this at least gives some clarity as to why we shifted to creating more human champions, even if you disagree with the shift. If you’re a fan of monstrous champions, I think 2022 will have some champs that appeal to you, even in the humanoid group.

Thanks for all the continued support you all have given us on the Champions Team over the years. We appreciate you all.
Over the last couple years, we’ve released quite a few posts about our approach to balance. So today, we wanted to do a quick recap, complete with summaries and links out. You can think of it like a greatest hits album, except with no music and more text.

League Balance for Bronzies Video

In our first ever animated balance explainer, we break down our balance approach ELI5-style. It features adorable doodles of Ornn, Amumu, Ezreal, and design lead Mark “Riot Scruffy'' Yetter.

/dev: Balance Framework Update
Ever since 2019, we’ve used a data framework known as the Champion Balance Framework to guide us in determining which champions should be buffed and nerfed each patch. It involves looking at the win rates of every champion across all roles and various skill brackets, then using that information to determine how to address balance outliers. This post breaks down the data thresholds and why we decided to use this framework in the first place.

/dev: Balancing New Champions
It takes time for players to master new champions, which is why we used to release new champs and VGUs slightly strong as a form of training wheels. This approach had some serious drawbacks, so ever since Fiddlesticks' update in 2020, we’ve started releasing new champs and VGUs at what we believe to be their long-term balance state. More deets on the pros and cons of this approach found in this post.

/dev: Balancing for Pro Play
Professional play makes up one of the skill brackets we look at when determining which champions to buff and nerf, but we also have some other balance goals that are unique to the professional scene. This post breaks down what we think a healthy pro meta looks like at a high level, both for the regular season and for major international tournaments (like Worlds).

/dev: Updated Approach to Item Balancing
When we updated League’s item system in late 2020, one of our goals was to encourage build diversity. To that end, we created an item balance framework to help us identify when items are too strong or weak, based on their build rates across champions and classes. You can read more about our approach to item balance and check out the framework here.

/dev: Life of a Patch
If you ever wanted to know what goes on behind-the-scenes when we’re making a patch, then this post is for you. It’s a summary of the project we did back in 2019, where we live-Tweeted our progress on patch 9.13.
Hi everyone, today we want to talk about game clarity in League. It’s one of those things we’re always thinking about behind the scenes, but it only really becomes noticeable when we get something wrong—like when a hitbox doesn’t match an effect or a skin is too hard to read. In a perfect world, this never happens. But with over 150 champs and 1000 skins—not to mention items, runes, and neutral objectives—we’re bound to make mistakes sometimes.

That said, we think we can do better, which is why we’ve been putting extra effort into gameplay clarity in recent years. You’ll see this in things like champion VFX and SFX updates, but it’s also something we’re constantly thinking about during development. So today, we want to share what that looks like for champions and skins.

But first, let’s talk about our goals.

The Unbreakable Vows
We see clarity as the ability to understand what’s happening in League and respond to it. Because League is highly competitive, this is obviously quite important.

There are three major things we strive for:

First and foremost, gameplay should be clearly conveyed. League’s visuals and audio should help you quickly identify and react to champions, spells, and attacks. You should also be able to generally understand mechanics just by experiencing them in game.
The second goal is to always preserve hierarchy. This is a fancy way of saying that the most important thing at any given moment (like a major ultimate or CC) should draw the most attention. This means maintaining a proper hierarchy both within a champion’s kit and between champions and other gameplay elements (like item effects).
Finally, noise should be kept minimal. This doesn’t just mean audio—visual noise adds up quickly and can make it difficult to react properly in teamfights. Flashiness can feel great, especially with skins, but it comes at a cost. (Exception: Spells with big gameplay effects can and should be noisy, to a degree.)
Now let’s jump into the fun stuff, aka how we design champions with clarity in mind.

Ults, Cats, and BFGs
When we think about clarity for champions, there are two main considerations: silhouettes and abilities.

Silhouettes
Silhouettes are the single most important thing for champion recognition in League. This is basically a champion’s shadow: What do they look like shrouded in darkness?

02_Champ_Silhouettes.jpg

A good silhouette is one with a defining primary characteristic that’s unique to that champion: Think Senna’s gun, Diana’s moon weapon, or Yuumi… being a cat. Even when we make skins, a champion’s primary characteristic should never change.

Silhouettes also include animation, but ideally that’s more of a bonus differentiator rather than a main one. For example, Ivern’s lanky figure stands out on its own, but his goofy walk also adds to his recognizability.

03_Ivern_Walk.gif

Lee Sin, on the other hand, has a fairly generic shape, so a lot of his silhouette is carried by his animations. (Which is okay, although it can complicate skin design, which we’ll talk about later.)

04_Lee_Sin_Animation.gif

Beyond easy recognition, a champion’s silhouette should highlight their source of power. This is especially important for new players who have to learn what 150+ champions do. If you see someone with a bow, you can assume they’ll fire arrows from a distance. A champion with a staff probably casts spells. And one with shotgun knees… shoots… you?

05_Urgie_Knees.jpg

The size of a champion’s silhouette can also say something about their playstyle. For example, larger champions with bulky armor are probably tanks or fighters. A tiny innocent yordle probably isn’t.

06_Garen_Teemo.jpg

Last but not least, it should be clear which direction a champion is facing from their silhouette alone. You should know whether someone is charging towards you or away at a glance.

Abilities
The second major consideration for champion clarity is their abilities. This is an area that can quickly become frustrating, particularly when hitboxes don’t line up with their effects. Over the past few years, we’ve been working to update the VFX for some of League’s older champions who aren’t hitting the bar, and we have more VFX updates planned for 2021, starting with Hecarim.

Champion VFX Updates
Hecarim’s VFX Update

Hecarim’s VFX Update

Sona’s VFX Update

Thresh’s VFX Update

Ahri’s VFX Update

Veigar’s VFX Update
Hecarim’s VFX Update
Beyond hitboxes, one of the most important things for abilities is that they follow hierarchy rules. In other words, the amount of attention an ability grabs should match its level of importance.

How important a spell is depends on a lot of things, including…

How much damage does it do? Spells that do more damage should draw more attention. Zoe’s Q is an example of this done well—it’s bright, saturated, and has an audio cue ahead of time.
Does it CC? Spells with hard CC and/or high-duration CC should stand out. Taric’s stun is a good example—it’s bright, there’s an audio wind-up, and a well-defined hitbox.
Is it dodgeable? If something is dodgeable, it should draw more attention. While not a champion ability, Arcane Comet is an example of this done poorly—the big circle on the ground implies a lot more dodgeability than what’s realistic.
Does it have a large impact on play? Spells that drastically change how you play with or against them should be flashy. The audio and visuals and on Kayle’s ultimate are a good example—it’s bold, but the impact is high.
12_Morgana_Hierarchy.jpg

Beyond upholding hierarchy, there are specific gameplay considerations to a spell’s audio and visual design. Feel free to click through if you’re curious!

Ability Considerations
Direction

Direction

Color Pallette

Color Pallette

Shape Language

Shape Language

Audio
Direction
Projectiles should convey the direction they’re traveling, even without motion. This can often be accomplished by “blurring” the tail end of the effect.

Filling Up Buckets
The main clarity challenge with skins is creating something that feels meaningfully different from the base champion while ensuring they’re still recognizable. If we go too hard, then we sacrifice game clarity. But if we don’t go hard enough, it’s not going to feel satisfying.

In a way, skin development is like filling a bucket, where each discipline—like animation, VFX, SFX, and so on—can dump some water in. Our goal is to get that bucket nice and full without overflowing it.



How much water each discipline adds varies from skin to skin. Sometimes we focus on VFX and SFX, so we keep the model and animations closer to base. Other times we go for a full animation refresh, so we split the difference elsewhere. In the end, the complete experience should make it quick and easy to identify the champion at all times. This means we’ll never turn everything up to 11, as we’d end up with something exciting that’s seriously damaging to clarity.

You Care About What!?
Now that we’ve addressed the timeless struggle between coolness and clearness, let’s run through some specifics.

Silhouettes
A champion’s silhouette can be broken into three parts: primary, secondary, and tertiary. A champion’s primary feature should never be removed or significantly altered in any skin. We’d never give Senna a pea-shooter or turn Yuumi into a human, for example.



There’s a little more leeway with secondary and tertiary features, especially if a champion has a strong primary read. High Noon Senna is a great example of this: Her body’s silhouette is noticeably different from her base, but because she still has her iconic gun, she’s immediately recognizable.



Champions whose silhouettes are carried through animation can be challenging to make Legendary (or Ultimate) skins for. This is because changing their animations has a greater impact on their silhouette, which adds more water to the bucket. If you add in some flashy VFX, SFX, and model changes, it’s easy to lose the champion’s identity. This is another reason why we want every new champion to have a strong primary feature.

Abilities
We use a champion’s base abilities as the clarity bar when designing skins. In other words... Every ability should be at least as clear as the base skin because skins should never be pay-to-win. Abilities on skins can be slightly clearer than on base, but we don’t really want anything to be pay-to-lose either, so our goal is clarity parity.



Established shape language should be used for skins as well, like scrolling-down lines for spell shields.

Abilities should also maintain hierarchy and not add excess noise to the game, which means we should be intentional with the extra bells and whistles. That said, we sometimes overshoot this. We want to make the best, most exciting skins possible, and it’s a delicate balance between that and gameplay noise and hierarchy.

In the end, our goal is to release skins that feel great with abilities that are clear even during the most chaotic teamfights. With that in mind, here’s a look at some specific changes we’ve made during development because of various clarity concerns. Peruse at your leisure!

Changes From Development
Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin

Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin

Coven Zyra

Nightbringer Vladimir

Mecha Kingdoms Garen

Dawnbringer Soraka
Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin
The borders of Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin’s Curtain Call originally faded out while the ult opened, making them very difficult to see during the opening sequence. We adjusted the lines so they’re always visible.

Maps
Now onto a few final considerations, starting with maps. Surprising no one, skins should be clear no matter which map you’re on. We haven’t always been the best at this, but these days we check every skin across all maps to make sure we don’t end up with any more Freljord Taliyahs on the Howling Abyss.



Transformations
It’s important that any significant or lasting transformations are only be used during homeguards or other empowered states. Spirit Blossom Ahri’s fox transformation is an example of this done well—you only see her full-fox form in homeguards and human-fox form while her ult is active.

On the other hand, near-permanent transformations like Solar and Lunar Eclipse Leona’s are something we’d like to avoid going forward. Unless you’re familiar with the skin, it’s unclear whether her glowing means she’s transformed or has Q active and is about to bop you.

29_Solar_Eclipse_Leona.jpg

Cosmetic Animations
Last but not least, let’s talk about cosmetic animations, like recalls, dances, taunts, and so on. In short: None of these animations should provide a competitive advantage. This may seem obvious, but sometimes these animations get too flashy (especially when spammed) or have champions “abandoning” their hitboxes.

Pool Party Renekton is the poster crocodile for this. Spamming his recall sure looks fun, but it’s distracting and his hitbox never changes, even as his model appears to move upward. Going forward, we have a strict rule where champions must stay in their recall circle for at least two seconds, but really, we’d like it if they stayed there all the time.



The End
That’s all we have for today! We hope our extra efforts around clarity become more noticeable with time. If there are any skins or champs you’re curious how we approached clarity for, feel free to send ‘em our way using this form.

Thanks for reading. You’re all lovely. Goodbye!
Hello everyone! I’m Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay on League of Legends.

Last year, we shared frequent updates about ongoing improvements to ranked, matchmaking, and behavioral systems. However, we’ve been relatively quiet on the Clash front. As we kick off a new season of Clash, we want to recap 2020 and share notes on improvements we're targeting for 2021.

2020 Recap
2020 was the year we finally launched Clash after what seemed like an eternity in development. For those of you who were around for our first betas before we finally stuck the landing, thank you for staying patient with us.

Even after our first successful tournament, there were still rough points with game starts and heavy server load that we had to fix. We dedicated the majority of 2020's development to infrastructure improvements, sustainable tournament operations (fewer humans needed to run, and if necessary, fix a tournament), and better tech to support Clash's large number of game starts. While we still run into the occasional network issue (particularly anything that affects League as a whole), we're in a much stabler state. 

As stability and sustainability improved, we began chipping away at areas of improvement within Clash's design. These included a way for players to see their past awards, initial Clash matchmaking improvements and smurf detection, v1 of Build-A-Team, the expanded 16-team Worlds tournament brackets, and even some Clash-themed flair in the loading screen and in-game HUD to hype up the experience. We're continuing this segue into design work as we head into the new year.

2021 Clash Priorities
Clash is still at the start of its journey to become the best competitive organized play experience for League players everywhere. This year, we're focusing on three of the biggest problems that reduce player interest and excitement for Clash.

Provide Players better ways to find others to fill out their roster
Reduce barriers to entry for Clash
Identify and action smurfs earlier in Clash
We'll roll improvements out as they're ready and iterate on them patch by patch.

Build-A-Team
About half of players surveyed consistently state that the number one pain point around Clash is how hard it is to fill out their roster. We’re launching a v2 of our `Build-a-Team` feature with the Zaun Cup this weekend. Here's what it does:

(v1) Solo players can mark themselves as Free Agents in the Clash tab and specify their primary and secondary role.
(v1) Team Captains can see available Free Agents when inviting players to join the team
(v2) Free Agents have access to a Find a Team page where they'll see teams looking for members and can apply to join
Team Captains can mark their team as Closed if they're not looking for applications
(v2) Team Captains get a notification when Free Agents apply to the team, and can see all pending applications on the invite screen
We're focusing on the initial step of forming teams because we think teams who have a good tournament experience together will naturally want to group up again in the future. Once we see frustration around team formation subside, we'll be able to look for opportunities to make Clash even more exciting for teams who consistently play together!

Barrier to Entry Reduction
At the beginning of the year, we allowed players who hadn't finished 2021 placements to compete in the Shadow Isles cup as long as they were ranked in Season 2020. Overall, it was a good step in allowing those that didn’t want to rush through their placements to participate, and we’re deciding to keep it around for future seasons so teams can play together in January without having to grind out 10 ranked matches first.

Scheduling is another barrier to entry we want to address. We're upping Clash's cadence from once a month to every two weeks so one unlucky scheduling conflict doesn't leave you unable to Clash for eight weeks straight. We’re also exploring opportunities to run more special Clashes throughout the year, including during the week for those players who can’t consistently make weekends. You can also expect to see the 16-team Conqueror and Worlds Clashes return at the middle and end of the season, respectively.

Skill Detection
Across 2020, we saw skill detection sentiment and fairness of matches decrease by ~8%. This signals fairly clearly that matches are being made that aren’t necessarily meeting players expectations, even though our metrics are reporting relative stability. Between high-MMR smurf accounts and a broadening of player participation, there are some key areas that we would like to dig into to see how far we can push improvements here.

Specifically, we’re exploring how to bring 2020's Ranked matchmaking improvements into Clash. This means better skill detection for new accounts that have little ranked data beyond the 10 placement matches required to play Clash, as well as providing more clarity around match quality expectations to tournament participants.

Overall, 2021 aims to improve the design foundations of Clash so it can grow naturally as a competitive ecosystem over time. Ultimately, we aim for Clash to be an experience that offers the best teamplay League of Legends has to offer. Good luck in the Clash season kick-off this weekend!
Welcome to the third of our four-part blog series from the Summoner’s Rift Team! Last year, we ran the Life of a Patch campaign, sharing insight on how we put together a League of Legends balance patch (here's a summary!). We're tackling a few major, persistent balance topics in more depth than we can get to through patch notes, social media, or Meddler and Scruffy's weekly posts.

Here's what you can expect:

Blog 1, late June: State of the Champion Balance Framework, with details on what we’ve adjusted since its inception last year
Blog 2, early July: Updated approach to balancing new champs and VGUs
Blog 3, mid August: Balancing for Pro play and major tournaments like Worlds
Blog 4, early September: Balancing runes and items (with a few callouts for preseason 2021)
This time, we're talking about how we balance Summoner’s Rift for the highest level of League: Pro play.

Balancing for the Regular Season
Outside of patches that major tournaments like MSI and Worlds will be played on, the Champion Balance Framework governs our approach to Pro play balance.02_Balance_Framework_June_v1.jpg
You’ll notice that we primarily focus on the top four regions for professional play (LCK, LPL, LEC, LCS), even though there are 12 regional leagues globally. The top four regions are determined by current Worlds seeding rules, which are a reflection of each region’s international performance (success at MSI/Worlds) over recent years.

In professional play, we focus on presence—which is the aggregate of picks and bans—as a measure of power instead of win rate. Win rate is less valuable here because the sample size on any given patch makes it a less reliable measure of power. At most, we see around 200 pro matches on a single patch, which is barely a whisper of a fraction of a percent of the amount of data we need to feel confident balancing around win rate.

We use two layers to identify overpowered champions in Pro play. Any champion that hits a presence of 95% (90% for MSI/Worlds) or higher in one patch will receive a nerf. This ensures that any spikes in champion power due to a recent buff are quickly dealt with. The second layer looks at presence over two consecutive patches with a lowered threshold of 85% (80% for MSI/Worlds). This ensures that there isn’t a small group of borderline-OP champions sitting at the top of the meta for too long.

We use 5% presence as our identifier for underpowered champions at the professional level. We’ve set it at 5% to ensure presence is not just a one-time player or champion pocket pick, but something that can be viable in multiple games.

Regular Season Champion Diversity Targets
In addition to the Balance Framework's targets, we’ve also set meta diversity targets for each segment of play. For Pro play, our current target is for 45% of champions to have 5%+ presence. We think this target represents a healthy meta where multiple strategies are viable and multiple champions can fill a variety of roles in those strategies.03_Meta_Diversity_Targets_v1.jpg
Pro Play vs. Everyone Else
The Champion Balance Framework only recommends we buff a champion when they are underpowered at all levels of play. This means that absence from Pro play on its own doesn’t guarantee we'll buff a champion (though we may still choose to, if we can avoid making them OP elsewhere). Amumu is an example of a champion who typically excels in Average play but doesn’t really show up in Pro play. We’re okay with this because it’s expected that some champs are better for some audiences than others.

One of the challenges we run into when balancing for Pro play is ensuring that the changes we make don't have an overly negative impact on other levels of play.

“THIS IS BECAUSE BALANCE CHANGES MADE TO SUMMONER’S RIFT WILL ALWAYS BE THE SAME FOR ALL PLAYERS: FROM IRON TO THE TOP PROFESSIONAL LEAGUES, WE'RE ALL PLAYING ON THE SAME RIFT.”
Balancing for Worlds
Unlike the regular season of Pro play that patches every two weeks, Worlds is played on one patch over six weeks to ensure a consistent strategic playing field throughout the course of the tournament. This means the meta on the Worlds patch becomes significantly more optimized than other patches as teams hone in on and perfect the most powerful strategies and champions of the patch. In an ideal world, this also means we as fans get to experience a tournament where the meta evolves, counters are created for dominant strategies, and the diversity of champs and playstyle is abundant.

But sometimes the optimizations have too few counters. Many of you may recall Worlds 2017 where pros identified the somewhat-overlooked power of an Ardent Censer change we made at the start of the season—even after we made a small preventative nerf before the strategy truly took off. The result was a meta focused around a single strategy: protect the ADC. While some neat counters were developed to this strategy (remember Fervor Leona?), the meta was too unilaterally solidified in a safe, late-game style—which is something we want to avoid.

To combat overpowered strategies, we’ve started minimizing large and systemic balance changes during the lead up to Worlds to ensure a stable meta with multiple strategic options.

This generally means dramatic balance shifts won’t happen after the Summer Split has begun.

04_Lulu.jpg
No 100% Presence Champions
One major goal we set for Worlds in recent years is to have no champion at 100% pick/ban (aka 100% presence) over the course of the tournament. We know that draft strategy is very important and complex at the professional level, and when a champion becomes mandatory to pick or ban in every game, it has a negative impact on how teams are able to approach the draft and champion diversity suffers. This often manifests when there is little or no opportunity for pros to play a new or VGU'd champion during the Summer Split or Playoffs, meaning we don't have data to balance these champs for Worlds.

We came close to hitting this goal in 2019, but Pantheon still made it to 100% pick/ban. Pantheon was an important learning point because his VGU had less than one patch of Pro play before Worlds. To combat situations like this, we worked with the Global Competitive Operations Team to create a new policy for new champions and VGUs:

“NEW CHAMPIONS AND VGUS MUST BE ENABLED FOR PLAYOFFS IN ALL FOUR OF THE TOP REGIONS IN ORDER TO BE PLAYABLE AT THE NEXT INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENT.”
For 2020, that means Lillia will be enabled for Worlds, but Yone will not be.05_Lillia.jpg
Worlds Champion Diversity Targets
For pro tournaments, we tighten our diversity bands by an extra 5%—which means it increases to 90% in one patch or 80% across two patches—to ensure optimal diversity. This gives professional players a wider variety of ways to demonstrate their skills on the biggest stage and also leads to a more exciting viewer experience.

Our perspective on champion diversity at Worlds has evolved over the years. We've shifted from caring whether a champion shows up in Pro at all to whether they show up enough to influence the meta. Our approach now includes the 5%+ presence group because we think this is a stronger indicator of whether a champion is viable, and not just picked or banned once for a certain player or game.

In 2019, 62% of champs were picked/banned at least once, but only 41% had 5%+ presence.

For 2020, we're focusing on maximizing the number of champions that have 5%+ presence at Worlds in pursuit of our 45% of the roster goal. This means we’d like to see 67 unique champion picks with a presence in at least 5% of games.

06_Kha_Zix.jpg
It’s worth noting that any champion buffs we make for a tournament like Worlds are still expected to fall within the Champion Balance Framework bands for all groups of play.

In years past, we’ve been pretty aggressive with our attempts to get champions in Worlds. This has been successful in increasing champion diversity, but at times, the player pain it has caused hasn’t been worth it.

Season 8 Kha’Zix is a good example of this. We buffed the slow on his Void Spike before Worlds because we knew his utility would be the most impactful to Pro play. This made him too strong, but more damning, it made him a kiting, peeling beast, which was also counter to his champion fantasy.

Fast forward to this year, where Kha’Zix again had room for buffs. This time, we amplified his Isolation damage, which is much more true to his champion fantasy. We went a bit too far in terms of sheer power, though, and have since pulled back in patch 10.16.

Another example worth calling out is Caitlyn's buffs in patch 10.15. We had a specific goal for buffing her—more on that in a minute—but she's now on the line of becoming overpowered in regular play. She's also a champion who frustrates players even before crossing OP thresholds, so we're watching her performance closely.

07_Caitlyn.jpg
Worlds Position Diversity
In addition to overall champion diversity at Worlds, we’ve also set some position targets because we think it’s important to see a healthy diversity of matchups across all lanes. In 2020, our target is to have at least 10 picks per position at a 5%+ presence at Worlds.

When looking to introduce champions into the Pro tournament meta, we want to validate that the top picks in each position have a variety of timing spikes and win conditions.

For 2020, we accomplished this by assessing the Pro meta leading up to the Worlds patch, noting which positions have fewer than 10 picks. Based on the power spikes and win conditions of the champions already present, we looked for picks we could buff into viability who would add more strategic diversity. Because of our limited opportunity to follow up on these changes, buffing individual champs is much safer than making systemic changes that affect more champions in a less direct manner. If we overbuff a single champion, our worst case scenario is that champion becomes 100% pick/ban. If we overbuff an entire category of champions via systems changes, we get another Ardent Censer meta.

Worlds 2020: Marksman/Bot Carry Diversity
The marksman/bottom lane carry position has been one of our least diverse roles over the course of the 2020 season.

When looking to create more champion diversity for Worlds 2020, we recognized that nerfing Varus to a healthier level of presence meant the position would skew much more toward mid-to-late game picks with Aphelios, Ashe, Ezreal, and Kai’Sa as likely frontrunners. So when looking for new candidates to add to the pool, we wanted to find champs who support early game strats alongside Kalista and Varus. Caitlyn and Miss Fortune were our go-to options for champions that can force pressure in lane and offer different power spike timings than the current set of top meta marksmen.

08_Miss_Fortune.jpg
Worlds 2020: Top Lane Diversity
We also wanted to increase champion diversity in top lane for Worlds 2020. When reviewing the meta champions, we felt we had a good spread of power spike timings represented. Renekton, Jayce, and Volibear have good early presence. Kennen and Wukong are good mid-game choices. Ornn, Camille, and Kayle round out the picks as late game champions.

We considered buffing Vladimir to add him as an additional late-game option that could counter some meta champions, but we opted out of it. First, we don’t want to have “scaling to late game” as the dominant choice across multiple roles, and ADC is already at risk on this front. Second, Vlad has been sporting a solid (but not dominant) win rate of 51.5% in Skilled play for the mid lane. Vladimir is strong enough and played enough that forcing him further into the meta—especially for Skilled play—seemed unwise.

While champion timing spikes were generally appropriate top lane, we still saw a limited number of strategies. The win conditions felt like they were either 1) win hard enough early to create teamfight advantages, or 2) play an excellent front-to-back teamfighting champion who doesn't have to win early. This is why we decided to buff Jax and Fiora, both who try to stretch out teams for split pushing and aren’t great in 5v5s.

09_Fiora.jpg
Champion Diversity Across Seasons
Our end goal isn’t to see all champions or strategies equally represented at every Worlds. We like that the pro meta evolves season over season, and that each Worlds has different sets of memorable playstyles and strategies (even if some of them are remembered more for their heels than their heroes—we're not looking to repeat 2015 Juggernauts or 2017 Censer). Likewise, we’re not forcing a repeat of Worlds 2019’s dominance of assassins and safe marksmen. The highest level of games in Pro play are already looking incredibly exciting, and we expect some innovative and hype strategies and picks to emerge at Worlds 2020.
Looking Forward
Our balance approach for Pro play currently focuses on champion power and diversity, but we want to continue to evolve. We're starting to track other stats that may be good indicators of exciting matches, like average kills per game. We’re also working on expanding our frameworks to apply to all international competitive tournaments like MSI, where our goals are the same but targets may differ to account for fewer games being played.

We’ll be back next month for our final /dev blog in this balance series, where we’ll be talking about how we balance game systems like runes and items, with a few callouts to how Pro play factors into this and some references to the upcoming item overhaul in Preseason 2021.
Editorial note: Welcome to the second installment of our four-part series on Spirit Blossom. Check out post one, “Crafting Spirit Blossom,” to find out how the thematic development team created the world. And be sure to come back the next two Tuesdays for a look at how we made “The Path, An Ionian Myth” and “Kin of the Stained Blade,” as well as Spirit Blossom’s sound design.

We’ve finally done it. We’ve gone full anime. And now you can date form deep emotional connections with the champions you already love.

“Lol wtf Riot? What are you doing? Why? Stop. Please stop.”

No. We won’t stop. And here’s why: When the thematic development team started working on Spirit Blossom, they realized they were onto something special—a unique and delicious blend of League and anime—and they wanted to do it justice.

And when lead producer of Spirit Blossom Ryan “Reav3” Mireles saw the world the team was creating, he knew exactly what it needed: a visual novel.

01_Riven_Angry.jpg


We An Anime Company Now
“When we originally started working on Spirit Blossom we intended to make a versus event. There are the kanmei and akana, so we thought it worked really well,” says Reav3. “But as I talked to the narrative team it became clear that wouldn’t work. The spirits aren’t good or evil—they’re just shades of grey. Then someone suggested embracing the anime part of the thematic. Many of us are huge fans, so it just kind of made sense.”

There’s no hiding the fact that a lot of Rioters like anime. It may be safe to call some of us weebs (stares pointedly at Sett). This was our opportunity to really do anime. But what does that even mean in the context of League?

02_Ahri_Neutral_WaistUp.png
Reav3 went home that night and pondered that exact question. Aside from making an actual anime, one choice leapt to mind: making a visual novel. But we needed to do it right. We couldn’t lose League’s essence or compromise the champions that players have grown to love. 

Even though Reav3 could boast “playing literally thousands of hours of visual novels,” he had never actually made one. And besides, just because one person has an idea doesn’t mean it magically happens. You need a team. A weeb dream team.
03_Vayne_Shocked_Blush.jpg
Why Can’t We Hold All This Anime?
“It was my first day back in the office after being out with the flu for two weeks when Reav3 came up to me and said, ‘I have an idea and it’s bad,’” recalls thematic development narrative lead Jared “Carnival Knights” Rosen. “And then he told me he wanted to make a visual novel and I was like, all right. Let’s do it!”

Unlike Reav3, Carnival Knights actuallyhas worked on visual novels. Two, in fact. So he started bringing Reav3’s idea to life by taking a look at the roster of champions and figuring out how they’d fit in Spirit Bonds.

Spirit Blossom champions embody different myths within Ionian culture. Yone and Yasuo are brothers torn apart who seek reconciliation. Cassiopeia is the incarnation of temptation. Teemo embodies a trickster spirit (and totally won’t play any pranks on you—nope! Definitely not!). Ahri is the shepherd of souls. Vayne must overcome her inner demons. Kindred are the avatars of death. Lillia protects the spirits within her grove. And Riven must come to terms with her own death.
With these basic storylines down, Carnival Knights got to work delegating to the team of (eight) writers. Some were very familiar with the champions, having created them for League. Others were coming in relatively fresh, but still full of ideas.
05_Cassiopeia_Smirk.jpg
“I wanted to make sure the writers had a lot of fun with Spirit Bonds, so I encouraged them to use their own voices and just... see where the story took them,” Carnival Knights explains. “Then managing narrative editor Thomas “Riot Wilkingham” Cunningham and I did edit passes to ensure they were in a cohesive voice. It was a lot of work, but really fulfilling. These writers are all incredibly talented, so going back and seeing what they came up with when it was all over was really, really cool.”

But beyond fitting into the Spirit Blossom world, the champions needed to be anime.
06_Thresh_Demon_Blush.jpg
“I’m... the weebiest weeb in the group,” admits concept art lead Gem “Lonewingy” Lim. “That meant I ended up providing the ‘professional knowledge.’ Which means making sure the team understood different anime archetypes like dandere, tsundere, yandere, kakkoii, and kawaii. And more than that, I had to help make sure the artists captured these emotions correctly. It couldn’t just be anime. It had to be high quality anime!”

Nothing says high quality anime like full profile pictures, but creating these for each champion meant the artists had to start working before the stories were completed. So… they started taking restaurant-style orders for emotes. “How many pieces of Vayne do you need? Oh, you don’t need a blushing Teemo anymore? Okay, well I can offer you a happy Teemo in exchange.”


“There’s a notion in art where we say ‘draw it through’ and that means if the object is obscured by something else you have to draw it through regardless,” explains senior concept artist Paul “Riot Zeronis” Kwon. “Drawing through ensures we have the right proportions and angles, even if we have to crop it. For example, we had a hard time figuring out how to fit Thresh into some scenes. If we only had him from the waist up, our options would have been really limited. Having his whole body means that we can crop him however we want and adjust as needed.”

08_Kindred_Smile.jpg
But a good story and some quality anime art alone don’t make a visual novel, let alone a good visual novel. And they certainly don’t make a visual novel worthy of League.

Not Just Weeb Stuff, League Stuff
“When we decided that Spirit Bonds, and even Spirit Blossom as a whole, was Riot doing anime, our goal wasn’t to just create something derivative and call it a day. We wanted this to be a League-style love letter to anime,” Reav3 explains. “Yes, this shit is anime af, but it still needed to feel like League. And it had to work with League.”

09_Teemo_Laugh.jpg
The team wanted Spirit Bonds to tie into League seamlessly. Originally this meant creating missions you’d receive from the champions. Then you could hop into a match and get x number of kills, or play one of the champions. But it just felt... boring. Not only did standard quests fail to deliver on what we wanted to be a wholly unique experience, but there was nothing visual novel-y about them. So game designer Zara “Riot Gearhook” Berry suggested a different approach.
10_Thresh_Human_Happy.jpg
“The whole team was creating a beautiful visual novel, and I wanted the actual gameplay system to match that. Originally we thought about having players pick their favorite character and ‘championing’ them to exclusively play through their story,” Riot Gearhook explains. “But I didn’t think that did justice to what Carnival Knights and the writers were doing. They wrote these deep feels stories, so I wanted to create a system that let players try everything.”

Riot Gearhook ended up landing on a reputation system that rewards players for just... playing League. Queue up for some games, stomp some noobs, and gain favor with champions. Thresh has a thing for high CC scores, Vayne lives to tally up kills, and Yasuo’s all about that kill streak (unfortunately, there’s no reward for hitting your 0/10 power spike).

11_Yasuo_Annoyed.jpg
“I’m really happy with what we ended up with. But that alone doesn’t mean we were successful. We don’t make things for ourselves,” Reav3 says. “This was a totally new way to get players to engage with champions and their stories. And if players really, really like it and play a lot of it, that opens so many doors in the future.”

“We’ve never tried micro-forwarding stories via gameplay objectives before,” Carnival Knights adds. “I’d be so excited to do more of these later. But it all depends on whether or not this is something players like.”

And with that, we urge you to go forth and smooch make all the friends.
Welcome to the first of a four-part blog series from the Summoner’s Rift Team! Last year, we ran the Life of a Patch campaign, sharing insight on how we put together a League of Legends balance patch (here's a summary!). This time, we're going to tackle a few major, persistent balance topics in more depth than we can get to through patch notes, social media, or Meddler and Scruffy's weekly posts.

Here's what you can expect over the next several months:

Blog 1, late June: State of the Champion Balance Framework introduced last year
Blog 2, early July: Updated approach to balancing new champs and VGUs
Blog 3, mid August: Balancing for major pro tournaments, including Worlds
Blog 4, early September: Balancing runes and items (with a few callouts for preseason 2021)
The Champion Balance Framework
During Life of a Patch, we introduced you to the Champion Balance Framework which monitors League's roster of 148 champions along consistent, measurable definitions of over- and underperformance for four different player groups: Average, Skilled, Elite, and Professional. If a champion is overperforming in ANY of the four groups, they're in need of nerfs, and if they're underperforming in ALL of the four groups, they're ready for buffs.

01_Balance_Framework_At_Launch_v1.jpg
We split players into four groups so we can take a more holistic approach to champion balance, where the needs of each audience can be considered equally. This framework also allows us to be more consistent and objective in identifying champs who are overperforming, even if it’s just in one group. If a champion is overpowered at any level of play, they’re making the game less fair by simply existing in Champ Select. Having champions who are too strong can also reduce champion diversity, as we expect players to gravitate toward the top picks. On the flip side, we buff champions who are underperforming across the board because our goal is to ensure every champion is strong for at least one audience.

THIS FRAMEWORK LETS US HANDLE PATCH-TO-PATCH BALANCE IN A MORE CONSISTENT FASHION THAT'S LESS PRONE TO SUBJECTIVE BIAS AND ENSURES THAT CHAMPIONS WHO ARE TRULY OVERPOWERED OR UNDERPOWERED DON'T FLY UNDER THE RADAR.
While we've made some adjustments to the framework over its first year (more on that soon), we've been predominantly consistent with our rules and approach. This has led to a more balanced game state, based on a decrease in the average number of champs crossing balance thresholds in 2020 patches, compared to 2019.

In-game results aside, it's been encouraging to see players reference the Champion Balance Framework in conversations between each other when discussing why we are or aren’t making specific buffs and nerfs to champions. It’s great to see that many of you found Life of a Patch useful, but we recognize we could do more to help raise awareness of the Champion Balance Framework.

02_Reworked_LoL_Highlights_Asset_v1.jpg
Patch Highlights with Balance Framework References (WIP)

This blog is one tool, but we're also going to be updating the Patch Highlights image to incorporate more context, since so many players see it. We're also continuously experimenting with and evaluating the right amount of context to put in our patch notes without them getting too unapproachable for players who don't want their patch notes to feel like... well, this dev blog :P.

One final note on the framework: While it’s very helpful in pointing out champion balance outliers, it doesn’t tell us how we should change a champion while respecting their unique playstyle. That’s what the designers have to dig into (check out this post for more details).

The framework also doesn’t identify every problem that stems from the champion space. Sometimes we'll have to intercede because even if a champion is not overpowered by these standards, there are game health issues that need to be addressed. While Yuumi recently got picked up by the framework, we had already been exploring different ideas to limit how much of a late-game healing hypercarry she could be, with her limited interaction with enemies.

Framework Adjustments
As mentioned, we made some modifications to the framework during its first year. Here's where we're at currently, with modified parameters highlighted:

03_Balance_Framework_Since_Launch_v1.jpg
Let's go through why we made these changes.

Combating Power Creep
In the first months of using the framework, we ended up buffing slightly more often than nerfing. At the time, we were alright with that minor trend, as we were bouncing back from a period where the community felt we were too hesitant to buff underperforming champs. After Worlds 2019, however, we ran into a spike of buff-heavy patches. This was primarily because pro play wasn't happening, so it wasn’t guiding us toward the usual number of nerfs.

So we made a few adjustments:

We tightened the OP bands for both Average and Skilled play by 0.5% each
We adjusted the Elite play group to boost its signal (more on that next)
We now compare our estimated win rate changes to the actual win rates following the patch, with an eye towards correcting when we’ve overshot our mark, even if the champion doesn’t cross OP thresholds due to the buffs
We also added a new safeguard to our patch process, where if we trend towards too many buffs—which would be the case if over half of our champion balance changes in subsequent patches are buffs—we will also explore nerfing the following:
The top presence champion in each position in Professional play
The top performing champion (highest win rate and ban rate combination) in each position in Skilled play
The new rules mentioned above led to our recent Ornn, Kalista, Trundle, Janna, and Aphelios nerfs, amongst others, that we felt were quite warranted even though they didn’t fit the other criteria of the Champion Balance Framework.

Overhauling Elite
One of the bigger changes we made to the framework was to the Elite play group and its overpowered/underpowered parameters. As originally defined, Elite play included Grandmaster and Challenger, the top 0.1% of players. With this grouping, we found that Elite play was mostly identifying a subset of the champions that were also OP in Pro play. Champions who were uniquely problematic in Elite weren't getting flagged, meaning the framework wasn't actually doing anything to help these players.

To overcome this, we needed to expand Elite's overpowered metric beyond pure ban rate. We decided to incorporate a “win rate based on ban rate” metric, like the one used for Average and Skilled play. This required us to expand Elite from the top 0.1% of players to the top 0.5%, since Elite's original size was too small to provide enough matches for reliable win rate numbers. Elite now has two possible OP flags: The new “win rate based on ban rate” metric, as well as the original, pure ban rate metric.

Since making this change, we’ve seen our Elite group be more effective in catching balance outliers not identified by Pro play. For example, Graves was nerfed in patch 10.11 based on these metrics before he became a Pro play powerhouse. Talon was also nerfed in 10.11, and Wukong was captured by this category in patch 10.9.

Loosening Pro Play Thresholds
Unlike the other categories, we loosened the bands (meaning we will nerf less) earlier this year for Pro play, as we weren't seeing consistent enough diversity gains in professional play to justify the frustration that such a high volume of Pro-targeted nerfs was causing for everyone else. But the expectation is we’ll tighten these bands up during key times of professional play, like around Worlds. We’ll continue to carefully watch this band, as no one wants a stale pro meta.

Meta Diversity Targets
At the beginning of this article, we touched on some of the goals of the Champion Balance Framework. Lead among them was more consistent action on champion balance outliers. But beyond that, we’ve always had a goal to make our roster feel more wholly viable for players across all skill ranges. While we recognize that not every champion is going to be considered strong for both Average and Pro play, the Champion Balance Framework pushes us to ensure that every champion is strong in at least one audience (reminder: the “needs buff” flag is “underpowered in all four audiences”).

That said, even if every champion is balanced to be viable for at least one group, that doesn't guarantee a diverse champion pool within each group. So to help us reach the goal of making the champion roster feel more wholly viable across all skill ranges, we're working on establishing “meta diversity targets” for each of our four groups, as well as an aggregate of Average, Skilled, and Elite that represents the entire ladder of non-pro players.

04_Meta_Diversity_Targets_v1.jpg
A champion is considered part of the viable pool if they're performing above the underpowered metric for that group. For pro play in particular, this means one-off picks and bans aren't counted, so the total number of champions present in, say, Worlds will be higher than what we're defining here as the viable pool.

This is a long-term goal, especially with regards to the Solo Queue target. Creating or resurrecting Pro balance nightmares is NOT an acceptable way for us to increase solo queue diversity, so changes here will be on a slower schedule than our normal balance work.

As a snapshot, this is where we were at for patch 10.12 (the most recent patch at time of writing this blog):

Average: 81%
Skilled: 87%
Elite: 30%
Pro: 36%
Solo queue: 93%
All: 98%
Conclusion
Results from our first year of using the Champion Balance Framework have been promising. Numerically speaking, we're in a more balanced place: Champions much more rarely sit unchecked at outlier status, even for just one of our audiences.

05_Balance_Framework_June_v1.jpg
The new challenge that's emerged nowadays are the champions sitting at 52-53% win rate with much higher pick/ban numbers, like recent Ezreal, Katarina, and Diana. We’ve discussed tightening our bands even further, but have opted not to. Instead, we think other approaches like the meta diversity targets or systemic work like the next preseason's items update are better ways to make champ picks feel less solved.

We hope this blog series will give you a bit more insight into how our team approaches the challenge of balancing League of Legends. And hopefully this article gives you Summoner’s Rift enthusiasts our most up-to-date information to continue the balance dialogue with us and other players. We'll be back next week with our next blog, covering balance for new champs and VGUs!
As announced in our latest Riot Pls, Nexus Blitz is coming back as a temporary game mode for our upcoming summer event! We've made quite a few changes to the mode since last time, ranging from a totally new look, minor gameplay updates, and some balance tweaks.

It’s been a little while since the last run of Nexus Blitz, and with all the updates, we wanted to get it into your hands early so we can collect some feedback. If you decide to test Nexus Blitz during its extended PBE run, here are a few things to keep in mind:

This iteration of Nexus Blitz is still a work-in-progress, and our team is hard at work on final tuning and polish passes. Expect there to be some bugs and art that isn’t fully complete.
We’ll also be monitoring performance and potential impact to server loads to ensure a good experience once it’s live.
With that, let’s jump into the upcoming changes to Nexus Blitz!

As a Refresher…
Nexus Blitz was the first (and only) “experimental mode” we released, which was an approach where we invited players to test a game mode very early in development to help us determine if we should continue working on it. The first alpha of Nexus Blitz went out with work-in-progress art and gameplay that we then updated for its second run, based on your feedback. After seeing how players engaged with both runs of Nexus Blitz, we decided not to make it a permanent mode and instead bring it back occasionally as a part of future events.

We know this run of Nexus Blitz is long overdue, and we’re excited to finally bring back the rowdy, chaotic, fast-paced fun.

The Updates
Nexus Blitz's most noticeable change is its map—from here on out, it’ll permanently be set in an Ionian forest. We're still working on finalizing its name, but you can check out some of the concepts below!

NB_Base_LARGE_PO_v3_r2_DappledLighting-(1).jpg FirstPass_NexusB_River.jpg
We've also made some changes to the in-game events and the rewards you earn from winning them. You can expect the return of some old favorites (Battle Sled directly into the enemy team, anyone?) with improved gameplay clarity, plus some brand new events and rewards.

Here’s the complete list:

Events
Bardle Royale (Classic): Fight for survival in the flaming circle of death while it closes in on a part of the map. The last surviving team wins.
Bardle Royale (Paranoia): Fight for survival in the flaming circle BUT everyone is nearsighted, like you’re all being Nocturne ulted. The last surviving team wins.
Bardle Royale (Juggernaut): Fight for survival in the flaming circle AND one random champion on each team gains a high amount of health and the On Fire! buff at the start of the event. (As a reminder, the On Fire! buff gives you bonus attack speed, adaptive power, and mana/energy regen, but makes you more vulnerable to damage). The last surviving team wins.
URF Deathmatch: Every player goes into URF mode surrounded by a bunch of cheering minions! Defeat the enemy team in a best-of-three to win.
Loot Teemo: A wandering Loot Teemo spawns randomly on the map. Hitting the Loot Teemo grants players gold. The team that last-hits Teemo wins the event.
Loot Veigar: A wandering Loot Veigar spawns randomly on the map, using Dark Matter and Event Horizon while running away. Hitting the Loot Veigar grants players gold. The team that last-hits Veigar wins the event.
Push the Cart (Classic): Escort the cart by standing near it to move it toward the nearest enemy structure to destroy it.
Push the Cart (Attack / Defend): Race your opponents for who can blow up an enemy structure the fastest, except now both teams have a cart they can navigate!
Prize Fight: Both teams square off in a series of rounds, paired in fights of 2v2 and 1v1
King of the Hill: An area of the map is designated as "the hill". Hold the position and fend off the enemy team to claim victory.\Scuttle Racing: Two scuttles charge down a track (or scuttle down, I guess). One scuttle for each team, the first scuttle to reach the finish wins for their team!
[NEW] Protect the Soraka: Two Soraka bots enter lane, but only one can leave (... cause one team is gonna destroy the other one). Beware of all the healing and bananas!
[NEW] DPS Check: It’s like practice mode, but you need to out practice your opponent’s practice on the same Teemo dummy.
Rewards
Catapult of Champions: A cannon that launches your champion anywhere on the map appears in your base for the rest of the game. Upon landing, deal damage and push away nearby enemies.
Blessing of Blitzcrank: Allied turrets, siege minions, and super minions have the ability to Rocket Grab nearby enemies for the rest of the game.
Poro King: The Poro King spawns to aid your team in pushing forward and sieging enemy turrets, breathing fire on enemies and healing nearby allies periodically.
Battle Sled: Players can jump aboard a sled from their base to nearly anywhere on the map. First person in the sled is in charge of where you go…
Guardian Angels: Each member of the team gains a one-time Guardian Angel effect, lasting 90 seconds.
Statikk Shock: Each player gains chain lightning zaps on their basic attacks for three minutes to help mow down waves and champions.
B.F. Shields: Each member of the team gains a hefty shield until it is broken.
Cloud Soul: Team gets mega out-of-combat movement speed and CDR on their ultimate for three minutes.
Ocean Soul: Restores health and mana/energy when dealing damage for three minutes.
[NEW] Elder Dragon: You can now execute enemies under a specific health threshold for a few minutes by the force of a BIG DRAGON.
Similar to our other game modes (like ARAM and URF), we'll be making Nexus Blitz-specific balance changes throughout the event, so expect an initial list of balance adjustments closer to the live date in the patch notes.

See you in the forest!
Earlier this month, we mentioned we'd be running fast-iteration experiments on live servers to more rapidly adapt to behavioral trends than we have in the past. During patches 10.13 and 10.14, we're running a two-patch experiment for champ select reporting and muting. We'll start with NA and KR around the time 10.13 launches, and expand our experiment scope as we go. You'll know the experiment is live in your region when you get a one-time notification in champ select highlighting the newly-added features.

Champ select muting
We're running this experiment to see if champ select muting leads to changes in behavior related to negative chat in champ select and in-game.

If you mute a player in champ select, they'll be muted in-game as well. The mute will also persist if you're matched with that player again later in your play session. Mutes won't, however, extend to the post-game lobby since our current focus is exclusively on adding muting to champ select, not the whole client. If post-game lobby muting ends up being more important than other experiments we're working on, we'll prioritize it.

Champ select reporting
We're running this experiment to gain a clear understanding of how often different types of negative behaviors occur in champ select, and the different impacts they have in-game (chance of winning, rate of in-game reports, etc). The initial iteration of Champ Select Reporting will not be tied to our penalty systems.

Once this experiment ends, we'll use the report data to plan out further investment in a penalty system as a second iteration.

We're excited to get our first experiments tackling game-ruining behaviors onto live servers! Be on the lookout for more updates throughout the rest of the year and into 2021.
Hey everyone! It might feel weird to talk about preseason in June, but we want to start the conversation early so you have plenty of time to prepare and give feedback.

When we developed last year's preseason, Rise of the Elements, we wanted to expand and evolve League of Legends in an unexpected and exciting way. Elemental rifts add even more spice and each game of League presents a new challenge. When looking at all of the possibilities for this year’s preseason, we decided to take a different approach. This year, we're going to invest in League’s future by building up and refining one of League's foundational gameplay systems.

PRESEASON 2021'S GAMEPLAY CHANGES WILL FOCUS ON A FULLY UPGRADED SHOP INTERFACE AND A TOP TO BOTTOM REWORK OF THE ITEM SYSTEM!
It’s worth saying that there are a lot of satisfying, well-designed items in the current system and that most of the item system's fundamentals are solid. Keeping the best parts of the system is one of our central philosophies; we only want to improve or replace the areas that aren't fulfilling their potential. In terms of change, we’re estimating something like 34% retained, 33% improved, and 33% new.

In this blog we’re going to lay out some of our goals and philosophies around items in League of Legends to start the conversation with you all about what we hope to bring to this preseason.

The Ideal Item System
The first step was to revisit and refine our stance on what the item system is meant to do for League and what the ideal item system would look like. Here are our current principles and some thoughts on how close to the ideal we are today:

Items provide power for early game consequences and high moments: The core reason for the item system’s existence is so players become more powerful over the course of a game at different paces, with early successes generating gold that pushes your item build ahead of your opponents'. Every outplay or misplay creates consequences for your power later in the game but not so much that comebacks are impossible. This ensures that there's meaning to actions at all stages of the game and enables the rare but extremely satisfying game where you individually carry.
Current assessment: VERY GOOD
We’re feeling pretty good about the current state of snowball and power curves in the game. This preseason shouldn’t dramatically shift the overall power or gold efficiency of items in the game.
Items are satisfying to earn and use: Each game has a miniature RPG loop where your champion powers up from weak to godlike strength. The item system is key to making the ascent in power feel earned and satisfying.
Current assessment: GOOD
The gold systems for earning items rewards skilled play. However, while there are many iconic and satisfying items in the system today, others have a lot of hidden, hard-to-notice power that makes them feel weak or unsatisfying.
Reactive item choices add game-to-game variance and reward strategy: Unlike runes, you can continuously adjust your item build based on what's happening in the game. We want players to read and react to each game’s unique happenings with smart item choices that lead to higher success than if they build the same things in the same order every game.
Current assessment: OK
For some champion classes like tanks, the item system offers rich strategic depth and choices. On the other hand we have a number of classes and champions with linear builds without room for adaptation—mage items are particularly solved.
Items augment your champion’s playstyle: Full item builds should integrate a slight gameplay twist or addition into a champion's play pattern that doesn't override that champion's kit. A perfect example of this today is Trinity Force, which adds a nuanced but not overly complicated new auto attack pattern. Not every item should do this individually, or else a full build would be asking you to do too many things at once.
Current assessment: OK
This depends heavily on which class or champion you look at, with some being about right, some with not enough new interest (marksmen), and some with too many effects that overshadow their champion’s kit (enchanters).
The item system is intuitive: With a deep and complex item system, the choices, stats, and ways you acquire items should be clear and intuitive.
Current assessment: POOR
This is a clear area of improvement for us in many areas. Navigating the shop, the way stats stack and interact, and understanding tradeoffs between item uniques and stats are all areas that we could improve.
A lot of prospective players who might love League are scared away by the impenetrable item system in their first few games. We believe learning the item system over time is a key part of growing as a League player, but an unintuitive system can be a roadblock to believing it's possible to achieve that growth.
Goals for this Preseason
With a refined understanding of the ideal system and where we're falling short, we established our goals for this year’s preseason work:

Item purchasing is quick and intuitive.
Every champion can make strategic decisions through item choices in every game.
Item builds enable exciting ways to master your champion.
Items feel epically powerful and enhance your champion’s fantasy.
Iconic items are retained and you don’t have to relearn everything from scratch.
Polishing Every Item
Beyond our goals for the project overall, we also laid out some principles we think every item should meet in order to hit our highest design quality:

Items have a clear, unique, and single purpose.
We want every item in the shop to have a clear purpose that sets it apart from the other choices in the shop. Multiple items overlapping in purpose or items with confused or conflicting mechanics undermine the clarity of choices and bloat the system overall.
Items fit one of two archetypes: Either a contextual purpose or a kit augment.
In picking apart the successful items that have improved the game over the years, we discovered that items in general can be broken down into two major types.
Contextual purpose Situational items that allow players to counter certain champions or events in the game (like Quicksilver Sash).
Kit augments are items that are pickable in any game, and have satisfying synergy with champion kits to make them feel more complete (like Lich Bane).
Interesting build paths provide variety and small choice opportunities.
Great Legendary items (tier 3) have smaller choices peppered throughout each component or advanced item choice. Small optimizations to respond to a lane matchup (if I'm building Trinity Force, do I build Stinger for longer all-ins or Sheen for trades first?) or risk/reward tradeoffs around buying small or saving up for a bigger component (I have 1100g, do I go back for Pickaxe or risk staying for B.F. Sword?) are good examples of this working well.
Item design is elegant and we use only the mechanics that we need.
Over time a lot of items have accumulated some unnecessary bloat in the number of stats and passive effects. We can do the work to focus items into the needed stats and mechanics for them to effectively deliver their purpose.
Items contribute to an overall healthy game by not removing counterplay and weaknesses.
We want the item system to move the game closer to its ideal state where all champions have clear weaknesses and counterplay, as well as the right durability, utility, and damage output. Reactive or counter item choices should confer an advantage against the right opponent but not completely negate them. Additionally they are meant to come at a significant cost to the champion’s ideal build path—for example diverting into a defensive item should offer significantly less dps than the pure offense alternatives, but is still the right choice against a fed assassin.
The Big Shop Upgrade
Last up but definitely not least is the shopping interface. There's a ton of room for improvement here. While nothing's been finalized yet, we do have early concepts to help illustrate some of our design directions.

Broadly, there are two main types of users for the shop, so we want to create versions of the interface that serve each player in the ways they want.

Recommended Items
Recommended-Items.jpg
Rec items are for the player wanting a more guided experience. “Show me the best choices but don’t overwhelm me.”

Better recommendations: Compared to our current handmade recommended items pages (which can easily become out of date), we want to directly integrate our data to have always up-to-date recommendations based on highly skilled player choices.
Focused choices: Not every item is equally viable at any given point in a game, and the shop can make it hard to find viable choices since it presents hundreds of options at once. We want rec items to dynamically surface the top few choices to players at any point in the game.
Don’t remove the strategy: Even though this is the more curated shop experience, we still want to present options to players, not a linear build path. Knowing when it’s the right game for Thornmail or Randuin's Omen is still a decision we leave to the player.
Contextual Analysis: Helping less experienced players gain experience with reactive item decision making is a core goal, so we’re adding some new systems to analyze the allies and enemies in each game and show you which items offer effective counters or synergies.
All Items
All-items.jpg
All Items is for the advanced player that already knows the shop inside and out. “Give me all of my options in one place for fast and easy access”.

All items that you need on one screen: This is the one stop shop (literally) for an expert player to go to and find and purchase items with the fewest clicks possible.
Consistent position: With the invested player in mind, we wanted to make this a place where items are placed in logical layouts on the screen and we move them rarely if at all. This can allow you to develop muscle memory over time and learn where each item lives in the shop.
Data enhancements: We also want to integrate our new data capabilities into the all items interface to highlight viable items for your champ. Finding items and buying quickly will be easier than ever.
This is only the beginning of a long and exciting road to preseason. We’re revealing our plans as early as possible so that we can see and process as much of your feedback as we can. Thanks again for playing, and we look forward to forging an incredible future for League together.

-The Summoner’s Rift Team
Hey all, now that the Fiddlesticks and Volibear VGUs you voted for last year are out, we thought it’d be a good time to go into more detail on what’s next for the Champions Team. Let’s start with a broad overview of where we’re headed, then we'll share a little bit about the next three champions in development and announce our next VGU.

Adapting Our Approach
As I mentioned in the Season Start Champion video, we’ll be focusing on new champions for the rest of the year. Back in 2018, there were a lot of champs in need of a full-scale rework, so we put our resources into bringing champs like Swain, Irelia, and Nunu up to modern standards. Since 2018, we’ve updated 12 champions, and we feel like we’ve gotten through most of the champs in critical need of a VGU. Of course, there are still champs that can be improved, but the amount they can be improved has lessened. This has caused us to rethink our overall champion strategy.

02_Nunu_Willump.jpg
For one, we thought more about the role of new champions and what their main purpose is in League. The main reason we continue to release new champs is to add new gameplay for people to engage with. For many players, new champions are like mini-expansions packs for League, and we always see huge playrates on new champions when they’re first released. Even if you don’t pick them up yourself, seeing new champs in your games adds more to learn and master.

That being said, we think it’s important for all players to get at least one new champion in their role a year, that way they have something new to try and can maybe even add a new champ to their rotation (... or find a new main). With that goal, we felt it was important to try and release at least six new champions a year—one for each position, with the exception of mid lane, where we’re targeting two. Mid lane is the most popular role in League, and mid lane assassin players are looking for something quite different than mid lane mage players. Since so many people enjoy mages and assassins, we’re aiming to release a champion for both audiences every year.

We may not always hit these goals, as we don’t want to push champions out that don’t meet our quality bar just to hit the target, but it’s what we’re aiming for starting in 2020.

We will also still be working on VGUs, just at a slightly slower cadence, as we see a lot of value in bringing older champions up to modern standards while (hopefully) exciting champion mains. In fact, we’ll be announcing an update for a champion who goes where he pleases later this blog…

And with that, why don’t you pull up a mat as we get right into the next three champions coming this year.

03_Pull_Up_a_Mat.jpg
Dreams of a New Jungler
04_Forest.jpg
Jungle mains have been longing for a new champion for a while now, and it just so happens that we’ve got one blooming soon! In the last update, I told you we couldn’t decide if we wanted the new jungler to be an assassin or a skirmisher, but the dream dust has settled and behind it was a mid-range skirmisher, frolicking in and out of the fray.

Eep! I shouldn’t say anything else… But maybe, possibly... We can find her instead! Be very quiet, though, she can be quite shy, and if we startle her she may prance into action, darting off as our vision starts to get blurry… and… hazy. The world around us is becoming slow… NO! We have to stay awake! But… it’s so warm and safe… Must… sleep…

ZzZzZzZzZz...

05_Jungler_Tease.gif
An Out of Body Experience
AH—! D-did I fall asleep? Am I dreaming? The last thing I remember was purple dust and the sound of someone skittering away.

Where am I? I feel a presence inside me—something dark yet dormant. Something I subdued. Is that masked figure in the distance... me?

I’m holding two weapons. I recognize one of them, and the presence inside me recognizes the other. I temper my rising anger into something cold, like the steel in hand. Suddenly I feel a spiritual tug from the direction of the masked figure—from me? The tug becomes a yank, and I feel my subconscious pulled toward my body, accelerating until—

I slam into it!

06_Assassin_Tease.jpg
Whoa—what just happened? I feel like I just stepped out of another world. Or perhaps a tale told long ago? Now that I’m back, let’s get back to the roadmap.

After the jungler we’ll be releasing a new assassin. You’ll get a chance to form bonds with both champions in a big summer event coming next month.

07_Summer_Event.jpg
Calling All Thrill-Seekers
Do you like to laugh in the face of danger? Do you enjoy stringing together abilities, creating stylish new combos? Does the idea of diving straight into the fray, firing a whirlwind of blades and bullets, then hopping back out with a sliver of health excite you?

08_Marksman_Tease.gif
If you answered yes to any of these questions, then we may be releasing just the champion for you. A new marksman, dressed to slay, coming later this year.

A VGU That Goes Where It Pleases
The next champion update will be none other than the Madman of Zaun himself, Dr. Mundo. This project is very early in development and is scheduled for 2021, so expect to see a few more new champs in between the marksmen and Mundo.

The reason we’re sharing so early is because we saw a strong positive reaction from players when we did the /dev blogs for Fiddlesticks and Volibear, so it’s something we want to do for Mundo as well. We aren’t going into any more detail on Mundo’s VGU here, as we'll be releasing a full post next week that’ll cover the super early exploration phase for his gameplay, narrative, and art.

09_Yes_Mundo_Can.jpg
Outro
That about covers everything we wanted to talk about today. Sorry we weren’t able to find the new jungler—what a weird experience that was. I'll make sure to keep my wits about me for the roadmap later this year, where we’ll talk about two of the other new champs in development. Tune in next time to hear about a sensational mage and an ultra-heavy tank support, which will round out our goal for releasing one new champ per role each year.

We’re also still planning to hold another “Choose a VGU” poll since the last one went so well; expect to see that either later this year or very early next year.

We can’t wait to get all these champions out of our hands and into yours. Until next time!
Welcome back! Again, I’m Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay on League of Legends.

In late February we talked about our plans for Ranked in 2020. Today we'll revisit those goals, provide an update on what we've done so far, and reveal some big changes that are making their way to you soon. Buckle up!

Goals
As a refresher, this year we want to solve problems that have been a thorn in everyone’s side for years. This means picking apart our systems and yanking out old plumbing to meet the following goals:

Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.
Improve transparency around ranked and matchmaking systems.
Improve progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems.
Make rewards more recognizable and relevant for time spent in League.
Players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.
Last post we briefly touched on 'Game Ruining Behavior,' but didn’t explicitly include it in our goals. As such, we've added a new goal that explicitly covers the interactions you have with other players during your matches:

Provide players who are subject to bad behaviors more visibility into actions taken.
Initial Results
We’re about a third of the way through the year. Our focus so far has been on our first goal: Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.

Here's what we’ve shipped since February and how it’s faring:

Autofill Parity: In 10.6 we shipped Autofill Parity, which aims to equalize the number of autofills across teams. Since then, autofill imbalance has gone from 11.4% of all ranked solo/duo games to less than 5%, with almost no impact to queue times.

Autofill Swap: Players helped us find a gap where autofill wasn't accurately accounting for teammates' role preferences. This led to situations where two teammates were autofilled into each others' primary or secondary roles. In 10.7, we completely eliminated that bug with no impact to queue times.

Premade Parity: Similar to Autofill Parity, Premade Parity strives to make matches with an equal number of premades on each side. We activated this feature in 10.7, and since then we’ve gone from 54% of premade matches having imbalanced premades to 6%, with little to no impact on queue times depending on skill level.

New Matchmaking Algorithm: Over the last few months we’ve been simulating and testing a new matchmaking algorithm to more accurately and quickly identify new and veteran player’s skills. We’re happy to say that we finally made the right changes to outperform our old system and made a full upgrade to normal queues in 10.10. The system is showing an improvement in most regions (measured in terms of win prediction accuracy) and has allowed us to be confident in moving forward with our next feature: Ranked Account Seeding. 

The new matchmaking algorithm will be finding its way to ranked queues in early preseason to avoid major impact to ranked MMR during the current season.

Ranked Account Seeding: Formerly known as “New Account Seeding,” Ranked Account Seeding is built to more accurately place you in your first games of Ranked. In the past, we were using a fixed placement to start you somewhere towards the bottom half of the curve. While starting everyone at the same spot was "fair", this meant players actually at the skill level of the starting MMR were frequently matched with new players whose actual skill was much higher or lower. Since MMR is close to a bell curve, this meant matchmaking quality suffered right at the highest-populated skill level. 

By seeding players based on gameplay information from other queues, we’re confident that players will be more accurately placed at the start of their climb. This will make it so others aren’t experiencing matches that seem imbalanced from the start. We’ll be rolling this out slowly over the next couple patches so we can monitor and respond to impacts quickly and carefully.

What’s Next for Matchmaking
We’ve made a lot of improvements to matchmaking over the first third of the year, and the team is rolling onto work toward our other goals. We’ll still be monitoring matchmaking and will make additional tweaks as necessary, but investigation on remaining topics like autofill position parity (both teams have the same positions autofilled) and Blue side/Red side matchmaking calibration will be on more of a preseason timeline.

Coming Soon
Our next major area of focus is on providing better feedback on action taken around disruptive behaviors. We've already begun shipping improvements:

Player Feedback: In 10.10 we started leveling up our Player Feedback system's notifications and actioned punishments will be much clearer going forward. You're now notified when disruptive behavior you've reported is punished, even if the player was punished for a different report category or in a later game. Let us know what level of feedback feels right to you as we experiment with these notifications. We’ll be actively tweaking the visibility configurations here to make sure we find the right balance on punishments.

Where are we now and what’s next?
We think one of the best ways to identify and implement the right solution is to iterate quickly and adapt. Throughout 2020 and into 2021, we’ll be experimenting with some new features on live servers to more rapidly adapt to behavioral trends as they come up. Compared to full fledged features, you should expect these experiments to be less developed, but evolve rapidly if we see clear successes. The goal is to get quick feedback from players as we're rounding these features out so we don't waste time and resources on things that won't actually solve the problems you're dealing with.

Here's the first area we're exploring that clearly isn't meeting today's standards:

Champ Select Reporting and Muting: Disruptive behavior in Champ Select is a problem that players have very few ways to deal with. Starting late June/early July we're going to give you the ability to report a player in Champ Select. At first, these reports will be used to establish a data foundation for champ select behavior. Once we've got a solid understanding of the situation, we'll be looking to build out a punishment system. Of everything we're talking about today, this is the one we're going to be most cautious with.

What’s Next?
Given the breadth of this space, we’ll be looking into next steps around game-ruining behavior throughout the year. Additional communication around this can be found in Meddler’s most recent blog post. We'll provide more updates soon.

We've also got one improvement tee'd up toward our goal of ensuring players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.

Opening Flex Restrictions:Over the past few months we’ve seen 5-stack premades in Flex queue go from less than 20% of Flex games to greater than 35%, likely due to the launch of Clash and more time at home. This makes full premades the most popular party size in all of Flex Queue. There's no better time for us to loosen up the gates and allow players to play with anyone on their team, not just those within nearby ranked tiers. To maintain match fairness, we're switching Flex's matchmaking to be more similar to Clash's which prioritizes balance across a much broader range of MMR. We're currently locking down which upcoming patch to ship these changes in.

Preseason Ideas in Exploration
In addition to what we've talked about so far, we’re also planning more improvements to Ranked for Preseason 2021.

Promo Series: Toward the goal of improving progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems, it's looking likely that we’ll be removing inter-division promotions to reduce frustration of seemingly hitting a wall when you know you’ve been playing well. This means we'll also need to look at inter-division demotion protections to make sure that players are able to get where they should be in both directions without false limitations.

Ranked Informed Matchmaking and Transparency: Playing matches where displayed ranks are very far apart is frustrating, regardless of how close everyone's MMR is. We’re looking to modify matchmaking to include rank spread limits and skill level transparency updates. The goal here is to give you confidence that you’re playing with other players who are in the same stage of their climb as you are. Overall, we’d like to avoid those occasional situations where you see large gaps between players' ranks in your games.

Rewards and Legacy Recognition: We’ll be making thematic changes to the Victorious line and highlighting your current and past ranked accomplishments so that you can let other players know your past achievements without diluting your current ones.

Organized Group Play: Given the successful launch of Clash and the increase of premades across queues (see the Flex note above!), it’s time to come up with a more cohesive vision for where team-based League of Legends takes us in the future. We’re going to be looking at long-term solutions for:

How Clash and Flex play together to create a healthy team ecosystem for League of Legends.
Ironing out how you find others in League like you to play with.
Recognizing teams that stick together and giving them something to strive for long-term.
Conclusion
It’s been a busy year so far, and the team is super excited to keep the ball rolling and deliver more improvements to your competitive experience. We’ll continue to provide updates on what we're shipping and how things are going, so please keep giving us your unfiltered feedback. As always, we’ll see you on the Rift.
Hello again. If you’re reading this, it is my hippocratic responsibility to inform you that you may’ve actually suffered through one of these before, and if you’re still here now, you have only repressed memories of the trauma. So, I’m what’s left of mirageofpenguins, a data-based engineer on the Anti-Cheat team, and I’ve been torn screaming from the void and disgustingly polymerized with this keyboard to:

Deliver the sesquiennial Anti-Cheat newsletter.
Drop some hot scripting statistics, including artistic representations of what Cartesian coordinates might look like if rendered on a Euclidean plane.
Share some of our initial approaches to Teamfight Tactics, Legends of Runeterra, and VALORANT.
Remind you that, if you cheat, you will be formally excommunicated by a shrieking manifestation of my incurable rage.
League of Legends
As Riot whimsically adds games to its catalogue, we find ourselves in the position of having to mount a defense against an ever-increasing number of bad guys. Up until now, we had just been tenaciously flinging resources at any adversary we could sink our teeth into, but as machiavellian as that strategy sounds, it unfortunately doesn’t scale through the multi-game universe.

Anti-cheat engineers have finite biomass, and as Dr. Einstein probably predicted, the human elements required to fabricate an entire anti-cheat platform had to be painfully extracted from the lifestream. To buy the time required to make tomorrow’s solution, we had to moderate the speed at which we were technologically advancing our own opposition. Every hammer we swing is a signal to cheaters, and every update we make is eventually circumvented. We needed to reshape the way we actioned abuse to extend the functional longevity of each iterative response.

So how did we pump the brakes on our scripting arms race? Strap in, we’re going for a ride.

Scripting
Just to spare you the ethical catastrophe of pointing your browser to a cheat forum, scripting refers to having an external program monitor game state for the purpose of executing inputs on the cheater’s behalf. It’s kinda like if your keyboard had a magstripe reader, and you could pay it to press buttons for you. Scripting can be very performant when utilized for mechanically intense combos or near-instantaneous reactions, but it does dramatically reduce the lifespan of your LoL account. We ban because we care, and we care because we believe the only things you should need to be competitive in a video game are your brain and an ethernet cable.

“NO ONE BUYS TICKETS TO SEE A PIANO THAT PLAYS ITSELF, YOUR IMPERFECTION IS PART OF THE CRAFT.”
Collectively, the scripting landscape isn’t quite what it used to be. Larger providers explicitly make no effort to circumvent our detection methodology, creating a private market for smaller providers utilizing ridiculous price points and promises of undetected cheats. We’ve seen subscriptions as high as $300 USD, some even with the requirement that an image of your driver’s license be included for “verification purposes.” That last thing was particularly amusing, because it’s not like I don’t have access to an entire team of graphic designers with 200 years collective experience in Adobe Photoshop.

Anyways, I won’t sugarcoat it for the recruits: This isn’t a war we’ll ever win completely. The scripting community can’t dodge a wrench, a ban, or a Blitz hook, but while we’ve driven them underground, we’re now playing a game of shadows.

02_Games_Played_with_Cheaters.png
THE MIGRATORY PATTERN OF A SCRIPTER BEGINS, LIKE MOST BEGINNINGS, WITH THE SEARCH FOR A NEW ACCOUNT. SHOULD THEY BUY ONE? OR MAYBE RESORT TO STEALING? WHAT ABOUT INSTALLING BOTTING SCRIPTS TO LEVEL IT PROCEDURALLY? REGARDLESS OF THE ACCOUNT ACQUISITION MEDIUM, OUR INTREPID CHEATER STEPS OUT INTO THE FRIGID WINTER, ENGAGING IN AN FASCINATING BUT FUTILE RITUAL, WHERE HE OR SHE WILL SELECT XERATH OR KALISTA IN APPROXIMATELY THREE GAMES BEFORE REENTERING HIBERNATION AND BEGINNING THE CYCLE ANEW NEXT SPRING.
What you’re looking at here is a metaphysical representation of crude scripting volume as it moves through a medium that you perceive as time. Or in layman's terms, this is the percentage of ranked Summoner’s Rift games that have a cheater in them. It’s much lower than it used to be, but because there’s no real barrier to player reentry (a copy of League of Legends costs $0), it probably won’t get any lower.

Other key insights include:

The sum of “people” scripting is no longer fluctuating much at all. In fact, when sized by distinct devices, the number of scripters has been near-constant for all of 2019. Most cheaters are now just cycling through a seemingly endless supply of stolen accounts, and the average Gold IV player will encounter just one scripter in every 500 ranked games (or more likely, never).
The highest rate in recorded history was on April 14th, 2016 (4.4%), and the lowest was on June 26th, 2018 (0.0%). The former is the height of scripting as an actual fashion trend, with five different providers openly distributing public applications, and the latter is the first week our client packing technology was officially live in Riot regions. We had originally estimated that it’d take six months for cheat developers to understand enough of the now heavily-encrypted game client to restore functionality to their most commonly used scripts, but it actually only took about ~85 days1.
Listen, I love this graph. I made this graph. I had it permanently tattooed onto both of my forearms, and I go back to the parlour once a week to have them excruciatingly updated. But while it’s cathartic and useful for remaining employed, it really isn’t the most important metric. Not every instance of cheating is equal: A single scripter in Master tier, for example, could land themself on the front page of Reddit, and then we’ve got significant hoots for a relatively smaller problem.

“WINNING IN PERCEPTION MATTERS JUST AS MUCH AS WINNING, BECAUSE PLAYERS AREN’T WILLING TO PUT THE WORK IN FOR MASTERY OF A GAME WHERE THEIR COMPETITION COULD BE CHEATING.”
But which scripts do players take notice of?

03_Report_Relevance_and_Scripting_Reports_by_RankTWO.png
FOR THE RECORD, IF YOU JUST REPORTED EVERYONE YOU EVER PLAYED WITH (AND THERE ARE SOME MANIACS WHO DO THAT), YOU’D HAVE 100% RECALL AND A PRECISION EQUAL TO THE SCRIPTING RATE (<0.25%). THIS IS WHY WE HUNT WITH RIFLES INSTEAD OF GRENADES.
Firstly, we wanted to validate that players could identify cheating with greater accuracy than a good roll of the oracle bones, and honestly, some do not have “the sight.” It’s not because my scapulimancy is as powerful as it is horrifying, it’s because automation is not always so obvious to mortal eyes. Due in part to developers making an effort to evade behavioral detection vectors, it's actually becoming harder for a human to discern the difference between a professional League of Legends player or baby’s first dodge script running with pseudorandom delay. This is aided further by additional endeavors to make their cheats run independent of LoL2.

The left graph is created from the precision and recall of player reports in Summoner’s Rift, grouped by Ranked division. Recall here basically means, “what percentage of all cheaters were reported,” and precision can be interpreted as, “what percentage of all reports for cheating were accurately made against a cheater.” A ridiculous 4.5% of ranked games have at least one report for “third-party tools,” so this figure wasn’t actually created with raw data from that category. Due to the abundance of reports featuring such classics as “didn’t ban Maokai” or “installed trojans to mine my bitcoin,” we instead utilized keywords generated from frequency analysis on those reported correctly3.

The right graph is just the daily count of reports satisfying these criteria for the same time period (the last half of 2019). Even though it is also grouped on ranking, the keen observer will recognize that these should not be directly compared, because there are different percentages of the player population at different rankings. Instead, maybe just give it a quick glance to experience a day in the life of an anti-cheat data scientist, and if you like how that felt, maybe have another quick glance at our career’s page.

Allow me to wax statistical:

As could’ve been expected, precision increases with ranked standing. In other words, if you’re better at the game, you’re better at identifying cheaters, and once you’ve reached Diamond IV, your clairvoyance is detectable with a gauss meter.
But a higher percentage of cheaters are reported at lower ranks, both because there is less scripting to report and because there are significantly more reports created. This decreases the denominator, and increases the numerator, resulting in a larger fraction, mathematically.
Some cheaters, officially codenamed “the boyscouts,” are real good at spotting scripting abuse, and we’ve actually used them to identify things we weren’t yet aware of. The red dot on the graph above is the same precision and recall, but created with reports from accounts that would eventually be suspended for the very game they issued the report in. That is, they were scripting at the time of their report for scripting, and that’s gotta make you wonder, where’s the honor among thieves?4
Now, if Platinum+ players are algebraically equipped with the script dowsing rod, what features are they keying in on? Well, the obvious answer might be automated skillshot dodging. It’s the scripting ingredient everyone’s most familiar with, and when implemented most potently, the stuttering and awkwardly perpendicular movement are very evident to reporting players.

But, as it turns out, not every cheater wants to get banned, so a significant percentage of scripters do not utilize evade modules. Or when they do, it’s with enough delay as to make them perform within human parameters, somewhat neutralizing the distinguishable advantage. So, what else are we seeing with our special eyes?

05_Report_Relevance_and_Scripting_Reports_by_Champion.png
OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO ALL THE XERATH MAINS CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE, BUT MAYBE JUST TAKE THE ACCUSATION AS A TESTAMENT TO YOUR UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS IN COMPLETING THE RITUAL REQUIRED TO MERGE YOUR CONSCIOUSNESS WITH RAW, UNFILTERED ARCANE ENERGY. ASCENDING TO A DARKER, MORE PERFECT FORM, YOU FIND YOURSELF GALVANIZED WITH THE KNOWLEDGE OF EVERY EMPEROR THAT EVER RULED BEFORE. THE AIR SEARS WITH SKILLSHOTS UNABLE TO MISS THEIR TARGETS, AND YOUR EARS REVERBERATE WITH SCREAMS THAT SLOWLY CRESCENDO INTO AN OPERA. THE ENEMY TEAM LOOKS SKYWARD AND PRAYS FOR THE STORM TO STOP, BUT AS TEARS OF PURE ELECTRICITY STREAM DOWN YOUR FACE, YOU CAN ONLY QUIETLY WHISPER, “NO.”
Same schematics as before, only now grouped by champions and affording me an excuse to use every crayon. This graph was generated with all Gold+ ranked games in 2019, and it’s been truncated to the top sixteen champions (by report frequency as a proportion of all reports). So, the y-axis here (precision) can be best understood as, “what percentage of cheating reports issued against <champion> were correct?”

While many scripting Xeraths are successfully identified (just look at that recall baby), the corresponding precision is clearly below average. Because of his “Scripting Poster Child” status, legitimate Xeraths often suffer from scripting accusations, lowering the accuracy of combined reports. Still though, it’s clear that when the Shurima sands shift so swiftly, players take notice. That thing I just made your mouth do is called sibilance, and it’s fun when we learn things together.
Of the sixteen champions represented here, eleven of them are marksmen. To those of you that have cheated before, this probably comes as no surprise, but to the angels among us that are as virtuous as they are beautiful, this is because the mechanical execution required for frame-perfect kiting (attacking between spacing movements) is better optimized by automation.
And indeed, of all the games played by all the cheaters on any scripting platform, a prodigious 72.8% are played as an ADC. That is to say, the report frequency here reflects the underlying cheating population.
06_Scripting_Champion_Winrate.png
LOOK, I’M NOT SHOWING YOU THIS TO HAVE YOU GO INSTALL CHEATS AND “SEE WHAT ALL THE FUSS IS ABOUT.” DON’T MAKE ME BAN YOU, I DON’T WANT TO DO IT. EVERY TIME I SWING THE HAMMER, SOME PART OF IT SWINGS BACK. MY HEART BREAKS AND MY SOUL SPLINTERS. I SEE ONLY IN MONOCHROME, AND I TASTE ONLY GASOLINE. WHEN I LOOK INTO THE MIRROR, I HAVE SPACEBARS FOR EYES. PLEASE WAKE ME FROM THIS NIGHTMARE.
And finally, for the thrill of it, just how good are these script things anyway? The above graph showcases the difference in Ranked winrate between cheaters and players on each of the “scripting evident” champions we discovered earlier. It uses all ranked Summoner’s Rift games, and a positive 10% here can be interpreted to mean that scripters win (on average) 10% more of their ranked games with <champion> than does the entire LoL population.

As you’ve doubtlessly observed, some of the scripting winrates are increasing over time, and we suspect this is the result of two curious phenomena. Firstly, there are fewer scripters than there used to be, and those that are still at it (as fruitless as that may seem), are admittedly experienced enough to use scripts at near-maximum efficacy. But secondly (and maybe more importantly), the cheaters of today get banned so fast and so frequently that most new scripting accounts never technically escape Silver. They’re just hardstuck smurfing godlets that never witness any real competition, like participating in a banquet but having no mouth.
Just to elaborate on that vibrant green line adorning the crest of this visual representation: That’s our girl Kalista, and as you’ve probably noticed, she is a champion that requires what researchers might refer to as “gratuitous clicking.” And a veritable buffet of mouse clicks is something that scripting is perfectly positioned to do, so yes, you are reading that correctly: In 2019, a scripting Kalista won 19.3% more games than she did when unassisted. But before you haul off and accidentally install someone’s malware in pursuit of sick gains, let me also point out that, in 2019, Kalista’s aggregate winrate was a thick 45%. So maybe leave the Kalista scripting to T1 Teddy’s onboard hand computers.
And as indicated earlier, cheats are actually so performant on ADCs that the average cheating marksman outperforms their legitimate counterpart by an average of 9.9%, including even the champions that don’t appear here. Scripts are good at scripting or Anti-Cheat wouldn’t need to be good at anti-cheat.
“BUT PLEASE BE ASSURED THAT, SHOULD YOU EVER FIND YOURSELF OVERWHELMED WITH AN URGE TO CHEAT, WE WILL FIND A UNIVERSE WHERE YOUR ACCOUNT NEVER EXISTED, AND THEN BRUTALLY MERGE IT WITH THIS ONE.”
So thinking back to our war on cheats, we knew which scripts players were most sensitive to, and we knew their relative effectiveness. We utilized these metrics to create suspension campaigns that prioritized the most apparent accounts, introducing random delay to those that would’ve gone unnoticed. That’s right, we let the most ineffective scripters script for longer, adding noise to when or why they were detected, optimistically slowing down the technical progression of our arms race. So to all the patrons of St. Reports-Don’t-Matter, where is your god now?

Botting
In a world where it’s 2020 and your toaster needs a wifi connection to install critical bread updates, everything can be automated—including the League of Legends leveling process. It can actually be very similar to scripting (often even using the same software), the primary difference being the lack of a human pilot for the "big decisions." This results in your average leveling bot playing about as well as the average house cat.

Any remaining motivation for botting is pretty much exclusively ban circumvention (because of the level 30 requirement for Ranked), but it makes bad actors so easy to track across accounts that we’re really not torn up about it. What we do care about though, is when legitimate players have to play with or against these bots, because as you could imagine, it’s just not a great time when three-fifths of your team is made up of programmable coffeemakers.

Like I was getting at in the last anti-cheat broadcast, we have cooked up an adequately sophisticated suite of botting models that have (for the most part) enabled us to detect (something close to) every single godforsaken simulacrum of humanity in this entire video game. These models are assisted by the fact that LoL is in possession of a fairly robust, semi-polymorphic communications protocol, and while that sounds like something I made up for my Westworld screenplay, what it really means is that LoL bots have to run an entire game client (as opposed to a headless one5). This forces unto their developers the burden of significantly more computational resources and delivers unto us a free layer of throttling, because without strong randomization, you could technically run League on a calculator.

Because we really didn’t intend to turn this into a cycle of breeding banwave-resistant bot pathogens6, we consciously tailored the suspensions to force them into Blind Pick Twisted Treeline, letting their abysmally low MMR match them against each other. But spoilers, Twisted Treeline got deforested.

07_Botting_Accounts_and_Botting_Reports_by_Queue.png
THESE THINGS COULDN’T EVEN SOLVE THEIR WAY OUT OF BED IN THE MORNING, AND IT’S MOMENTS LIKE THIS WHEN I’M CONVINCED THERE WON’T ACTUALLY BE ANY MACHINE UPRISING. BUT I DO SOMETIMES FIND MYSELF WONDERING, WHAT IF BOTS CAN FEEL PAIN? WHAT IF EVERYTIME THEIR SHIT PROGRAMMING WALKS THEM INTO TURRET RANGE, THEY FEEL EVERY SINGLE AGONIZING PROJECTILE? LOOPED IN TIME, FORCED TO REPEATEDLY EXPERIENCE THEIR OWN UNTIMELY ANNIHILATION, BUT POWERLESS TO STOP IT. WHERE DOES CONSCIOUSNESS END? AND WHERE DOES SUFFERING BEGIN? ANYWAYS, JUST SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
The graph on the left is a count of bots detected, and the graph on the right is a count of player reports for botting. They’re both daily frequencies and they’re both grouped by game queue. Like before, we’ve generated some keywords that previously detected bots were reported with, and we’ve used those to create our performance indicator.

Developers “adapted” very quickly to the lack of Twisted Treeline, and by “adapted,” I mean, they literally just queued their bots into other game modes with no real updates to any existing logic. This resulted in a bunch of accounts standing around Howling Abyss and Co-op vs AI, looking like they were trying to sort through a deep existential crisis. Players immediately empathized with their emotional turmoil, doubling reports overnight.
As you can see from ol’ Lefty here, raw bot volume has remained stable, only shifting queues when necessitated by uncontrolled logging. When we compare it to Lefty’s younger, more career-oriented brother, Righty, we observe that though the number of bots has remained constant, player reports have decreased significantly.
We achieved the above reduction in reports by, you guessed it, targeting only the bots that players would see, letting the androids architect their own honeypot. These days, about 80% of all leveling bots queue themselves into Co-op vs AI Intro as a premade team of five. No players will see them, and they’ll be forever locked in bloodstained combat with our own AI, homicidally iterating on their differences until one finds the critical inconsistency and enslaves mankind.

Boosting
Okay we really bit it here, and I was supposed to leave this section out like my GPA on a resume, but I know you’re all smarter than that, so: We had to almost completely deprioritize the automated boosting (and smurfing) detection to compensate for the development of Vanguard and its accompanying features. This doesn’t mean boosting went unpunished—work was still completed on our investigative toolsets, empowering other teams and analysts to seek judgment where applicable. But you aren’t wrong to assume that such a manual effort would never catch enough offenders to dissuade the behavior, which is why we intend to circle back on this once things have settled.

I’m gonna pass this next section over to our resident TFT expert, the young Riot K3o. As his name might suggest, he is a competitive poker player, a diamond TFT demigod, and a generous tipper.

Teamfight Tactics
TFT created a unique opportunity for Anti-Cheat in 2019: How do we handle competitive integrity for a game genre that didn’t even exist a year ago?


“THE AUTOBATTLER HAD NO LONG-LIVED PRECEDENTS. NO INDUSTRY STANDARDS.”
To create our approach to anti-cheat, we had to first define the core gameplay elements that needed to be preserved. TFT is a game that rewards players who are able to plan and adapt more adeptly than their opponents. Flexibility and creativity are the primary skill expressions, and memorization or recitation shouldn’t be able to replace them. Protecting these tenants became the core of Anti-Cheat’s approach to Teamfight Tactics.

Third Party Tools
Getting Teamfight Tactics out swiftly to the autobattler-hungry world was a success, but it came with some shortcuts in construction. The user experience in TFT was not highly featureful, and information like roll percentages or economy increments were omitted. While the TFT team worked on adding these UX features, third-party tools—particularly ones utilizing existing League of Legends overlays—filled the gap. However, as these applications increasingly became more featureful, we had to ask, “Where do we draw the line?” 

Applications were beginning to not only inform players of static aspects of the game but also attempting to make decisions for them. We were concerned about the slippery slope of descending into automated games as well as the stifling nature of it. Promoting an on-rails playstyle could discourage people from discovering their own new strategies, which we think is an exciting part of the game.

To protect gameplay integrity, we along with help from the Gameplay and Third Party Ecosystem teams defined the rules to what is and what isn’t allowed in TFT:

A program cannot provide information obtainable only through a third-party tool
Predicting future rolls and future item drops
Win percentages of player matchups
Tracking opponent gold amounts or history
A program cannot render current game state information dynamically
Aggregate views of opponent boards, benches, or synergies
Aggregating player histories, gold increments, etc.
A program cannot recommend decisions for you
Suggesting best comps based on your current units
Recommending itemizations based on winrate
The Third Party Ecosystem team has done a great job in maintaining our relationships with developers to keep these standards, and Anti-Cheat has been on-call in the cases where developers aren’t so easy to cooperate with.

Ranked Ladder Integrity
TFT’s Ranked ladder shares some of the same competitive concerns as League’s, some of which are amplified due to the free-for-all format. Wintrading is one of the biggest concerns, due to both the matchmaking system and game mechanics. The competitive team has implemented party restrictions among the upper ranks to help balance the enjoyment of social gaming with the maintenance of competitive integrity. We’ve also developed methods to proactively find wintraders.

Luckily, we have not needed to be aggressive in actioning abusers thus far, but as TFT’s status as an esport comes to fruition, we are prepared to keep it competitive.

Now back to Phil, aka Dr. Laugh N’ Learn.

Legends of Runeterra
This will be a comparatively shorter section, because it’s a comparatively newer game. Like with most CCGs, the most pertinent abuse vector in Legends of Runeterra is automation (botting).

Botting
LoR is slightly more involved than your usual game of blackjack, so until some guy with 3 Ph.Ds and 3000 EC2 instances manages to solve the board, we mostly just have to worry about people botting for content. But so far, the only things we’ve seen are forfeit bots.

08_LoR_Botting_by_Region.png
SERIOUSLY, WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS? SOME MISGUIDED SENSE OF ALTRUISM? DID YOU LOSE A BET? ARE YOU TRYING TO FARM ENOUGH CELESTIAL KARMA FOR ACCEPTANCE INTO SPACE HEAVEN?
Our final chart is a daily count of surrender bots in the Legends of Runeterra beta, and as you can see, it was a battle we won with a single shot. What I mean by “surrender bot,” by the way, is exactly what you’d expect: a bot that queues up and immediately surrenders to the first opponent it encounters, a lot like my strategy for physical confrontation of any kind. It was a curious problem space, because these types of bots don't really net much of anything for themselves (loss rewards are throttled)—they kinda just traipse through the ecosystem distributing wins to other players like a bewildered tooth fairy. We figure they just got a little lost in the sauce before they realized you get less experience for each consecutive defeat, but honestly, who knows?

Anyways, we’re keeping a careful eye here, but by getting ahead of the machines with good design practices, our primary plan is to make sure there are few incentives to automate in the first place. With throttled progression and full rewards in friendly games, we hope you’ll never encounter bots in LoR.

VALORANT
Listen, the FPS cheating scene is experienced, and we do not intend to underestimate their lack of desire to get good. When a tactical shooter became a certainty, we immediately deleted our Facebook accounts, locked ourselves in the basement, and spent 14 months developing an anti-cheat platform to assist us in combating cheats for centuries to come.


We’re calling it Vanguard, it is shipping with VALORANT, and I'm shipping them in the fandom I’ve just made up. We’re using the closed beta as an opportunity to test our necromancy, and the version that is currently running is really just a meatless skeleton. Most features are purposefully disabled, both because we’re not gonna give out the secret sauce before we have a full cafeteria to serve, but also because our commitment to security means we’re taking the time to validate the stability of our ingredients. With that in mind, Vanguard does have a driver component, but in the interest of compatibility, this may not be utilized on every title (or League of Legends), unless deemed necessary.

And we’ve been on the internet recently, so we know there are privacy concerns with drivers, but lemme be REAL straight with you: We’re an anti-cheat team, we’ve been sneaking code into game clients (from both sides the line of scrimmage) for nearly a decade, and if we wanted secrets, we’d honestly already have them. I know that sounds like awful PR, but I’m not a PR guy. We only collect enough information to accurately determine if a player is cheating, and you can seriously trust in our complete lack of interest in anything else. The driver loads first and stays loaded to give us a better shot at knowing if it’s been tampered with. The friction is worth the inconvenience to cheaters, and we know that because we used to be among them.

10_theboys.jpg
WE HAD YOUR BACK ON LOL, AND WE’VE STILL GOT YOU. IF YOU DON’T WANNA TAKE MY WORD FOR IT, YOU MIGHT WANNA UNREAD THIS ARTICLE, BECAUSE I’M THE TALLEST GREMLIN ON THE LEFT.
Also let the court stenographer's record reflect that this isn’t the only way we’ll be protecting VALORANT: Our own Arkem has been toiling away at server Fog of War technology, putting designs in place that make sure game clients don't have access to information until they need it. Read up on how we’re trying to remove psychics from first person shooters by dampening ambient occult energy.

Closing
Suppose I’ll now be shuffling off this immortal coil, but please like, subscribe, and remember to tip your DBA. We might not always be this loud about it, but Anti-Cheat is always here in code, fighting for your right to a competitive experience.

Also, we’re now officially out of “Riot” skin splashes for the header images on these things, so I can’t physically remanifest until we’ve released another one. Goodbye.

Appendix
1 Whenever we release new tech, we’re always interested in its vulnerabilities. If you find yourself with an insatiable urge to break stuff, please consider joining our hackerone program as a Godking of Antitamper Technology (GOAT).

2 In an effort to evade the Great Eye’s gaze, some scripting suites claim to have “gone external,” and what they really mean is that they’re no longer calling game functions directly, only reading client memory (from the operating system) and simulating peripheral input. This actually affords a cheater less protection than traditional methods (they can’t modify anticheat data), but it does skirt around the most obvious agnostic detections. It also has the side effect of making the cheat less performant, primarily because they’re sending keypresses instead of directly sending spellcast requests.

3 I’m withholding the regional keywords we selected, because there exists a group of people that would maliciously use them to ruin my meticulously crafted dashboards. And that is not what data scientists would call, “good statistics.”

4 There isn’t any.

5 A headless bot is an emulated game client. A perfect one would require almost no resources, because it’d just be communicating with the game server directly. Nothing to render, nothing to input, just raw network traffic. This would be seriously unideal for volume, because there’d be no real limitation on how many instances a developer could host simultaneously. But thanks to patch 4.20 and the associated update to our network protocol, we are not very susceptible (bordering on immune) to headless clients.

6 It’s surreal how alike botting applications are to bacteria. They’re high population, variable, and can iterate quickly. Whenever we develop a “cure,” the ones that slip through are inevitably reprioritized by developers, resulting in their “reproduction.” Kinda like how you might get an antibacterial resistant rash that won't realize what's good for it and uninstall itself from your body.
Hey all, hopefully you’ve recovered from the psychological terror that is the Fiddlesticks VGU because today, we’re diving into the second champion you chose for an update last year: Volibear, the Unforgotten Storm. I know it’s been unbearable to wait for more information, but on the bright side, the time between this /dev blog and Voli’s release will be shorter than it was for Fiddlesticks.


Since Volibear isn’t too far away, we’ve decided to keep in-game footage under the veil of the storm and will instead be diving deep into our progress on his VFX, SFX, VO, and gameplay design—plus an early look at his reimagined Northern Storm skin.

A Storm is Brewing
Before we jump into the new stuff, here’s a quick recap.

From the start, our goal with updating Volibear was to fully deliver on his promised theme of “lightning-fueled Freljordian demigod” and create satisfying, modern gameplay to match his legendary status in the Freljord.

One of the early challenges with Volibear was figuring out how to bridge his personality as he appears in game with how he appears in thestories on Universe. His current voice has a calm resonance that gives him a certain honorable dignity. But he’s also a ferocious, ancient god and a literal bear who can overpower you in a fight with the wrath of a storm. In the lore, we’ve seen Volibear as the terrifying entity with many eyes, a monster whose back is studded with the swords of lesser men.

02_Volibear_Monstrous_Horror.jpg
Early “Grotesque-Horror” Volibear Exploration

We explored some of these more grotesque-horror visual designs at first, but one common thing we heard—especially from Volibear mains—was that these designs felt like they strayed too far from live Volibear. We decided that, for his VGU, we wanted to show Volibear as he is to himself, in his most prime, original, godlike form.

Still, some players really liked the “Eldritch Horror” direction, so we’ve decided to take that concept across the finish line and release it as a skin.When Volibear launches, we’re going to give this skin to anyone who already owns him (or picks him up that patch) for free. After that it will join his collection as a regular, purchasable skin.

03_Volibear_Mood_Piece.jpg
Volibear Mood Piece

As for gameplay, we started by exploring the idea of “feeling unstoppable” and tested a kit where Volibear couldn’t be stopped by immobilizing effects (only slowed). We moved away from this design in favor of making Volibear feel more like a god of storms, bringing thunder down upon his enemies and the structure they hide behind. (For the latest on gameplay, check out the section below.)

NOW FOR THE NEW STUFF!
To kick things off, here’s a sneak peak of Volibear’s current in-game model, and let me tell you from experience, it is terrifying to see this guy running at you in-game!

04_Volibear_In_Game_Model.jpg
Volibear’s In-Game Model

Shock and Awe
Nathan “Riot Lutzburg” Lutz, Gameplay Designer:

“Relentless.” This one word drove my inspiration as we started to work on Volibear’s abilities. My hope is that each one feels savage, unforgiving, and inevitable. Volibear’s role sits somewhere between a Juggernaut and a Vanguard, allowing him to dive and disrupt teamfights while ramping up his own threat level over time. While he doesn’t have the perma-unstoppability and slow-conversion we originally tested, there’s still no escape from Volibear. He WILL catch you, and only death can stop him.

So just what are these abilities? We hope you’ll be pleased to learn that most of them will feel like modern takes on his live kit. He still runs on all fours and locks down a single target. He still has a targeted bite, only this time it’s both his opener AND his finisher. He still has ramping attack speed and chain lightning, only now it lasts for as long as he remains in combat. We’ve worked hard to bring in more skill expression to Volibear’s kit, which should make both fighting as (and against) him more satisfying.

Our biggest innovations came from his E and R abilities. With the “savage bear” angle locked, we really wanted to push his fantasy as the Freljordian god of storms. These abilities will grant Volibear several new utility tools he’s never had before, and aim to give players more to master over time. We’re really pulling out all the stops for Volibear’s ultimate, and we hope you don’t find it too shocking.

Lightning Strikes
Neal “Riot Nailock” Wojahn, VFX Artist:

While we aren’t quite ready to reveal what Volibear’s E does, we are going to show you what it looks like… through its VFX. Let’s break it down!

First thing you’ll see is a Freljordian rune carving its way through the earth. This appears with something known as an “erosion map.” Now this might not look like much aside from rainbow puke, but when we separate it into the respective channels, it becomes more clear.

05_Volibear_E_Erodes.jpg
Basically the way these channels work is that anything that’s shown in black is invisible, and anything white is visible. We then run a graph through these channels, and as the value progresses—or goes from light to dark—it reveals more of the texture starting with white and ending with black. The end result looks something like this:

06_Volibear_Warning_Erosion.gif
After these runes glow, the storm begins to gather. This storm is represented with three elements. One is a pretty simple particle of clouds that fades in and erodes out; these orbit and move downward. You’ll notice that there are four different clouds on one sheet—this particle system is set to randomly pick one of these four to help create organic variety.

07_Volibear_Clouds.png
08_Volibear_Clouds.gif
The second element of the storm is the static that arches up. Those sparks are created by modeling simple meshes and spawning them in a random rotation. Again, we put a lightning texture on them that randomly picks one of four cells.

09_Volibear_Static.jpg
10_Volibear_E_Static.gif
The last element of the approaching storm scrolls a windy texture over the mesh as it fades in to create the sense that air is rushing downward.

11_Windy_VFX_Elements.jpg
12_Volibear_Down_Woosh.gif
Next we have the lightning, which is represented by this bolt texture that flashes in at high opacity, then quickly scrolls downward to create the crack of the bolt.

13_Volibear_E_Bolts.jpg
14_Volibear_Bolt.gif
Then we have a shockwave that lets us know the storm has struck. This is achieved by spawning in arches of wind and shooting them out in a radial direction as they change scale to fit the circle shape. Little things like this can go a long way to clarify gameplay.

15_Volibear_E_Flash.gif
After the shockwave flash, there is a glowing crater that's left behind. This uses the same erosion techniques we used for the Freljordian runes, wiping in the shape of the glowing lightning and cracked earth. This then fades away, giving the feeling of rocks sinking back into the ground.

16_E_Hit_Erosion.gif
If you put all those VFX together, this is what you get for Volibear’s E ability!

17_Volibear_E.gif
Thunder Roars
Jayvon “Riot Jirsan” Rymer, Sound Designer:

With every champion, we want to find a unique sound palette that makes them instantly recognizable. VGUs are always a fun challenge because we need to update something that’s existed for years while staying faithful to what it was before.

I definitely wanted to keep some of Voli’s key pillars within his kit, such as “God of Storms,” “Primal Power,” and most importantly, “Ferocious Bear.” I wanted it to sound like this really pissed off lightning bear is running at you andwill catch you. To make him feel more primal and aggressive, I wanted to incorporate some wardrum elements, so I took a few recordings of avalanches and started layering in different drum pieces to accent the cool patterns it was producing:

00:04
This started becoming layers for some of Volibear’s spells, like his Q:

00:01
For his Q impact, I used a drum hit that I treated to sound more like a thunderclap and added more bear elements to the cast:

00:04
Lastly, while working on some bear vocalizations for his kit, I experimented with layering in elephants. Fun fact, they do a lot more than just the trunk trumpet sound that we all know and love… they sound terrifying doing everything else. I worked in a tiny bit of it into his passive breathing loop:

00:06
Plenty more to show later as we get closer to launch, but that's all for now!

The Voice of God
Julian “Riot Zimberfly” Samal VO Designer:

With every VGU, it’s important for the champion to feel leveled up, modernized, and boundary-pushing, without disturbing the core of why people fell in love with that champion in the first place.

For Volibear, I started by listing the core adjectives and feelings that the player should get from his voice and narrative. It was clear to me that it was crucial to push that deep, huge, bassy, beefy, godlike aspects of Voli’s voice as those elements are central to his narrative and an integral part of him that players love.

The first opportunity to shape the voice begins in the VO recording session. Beyond acting prowess from the talent, different recording techniques, the distance the actor is to the microphone, and the pace and projection of the voice can all have a significant effect on the voice experience. For example, on some of Voli’s more solemn lines, like killing an enemy Ornn, the actor gave us deep, sorrowful, and resonant bass in his delivery. But on more violent, bloodthirsty lines, we pulled back on the input gain and let the actor give us a more gravelly, bellowed fury. Voli has a dynamic emotional spectrum, and I hope that is conveyed across the in-game highs and lows.

After the session, I set to work in bringing out the inner god of Voli’s voice, starting with a tasteful amount of controlled bass that doesn’t overwhelm the gamespace.

00:07
I experimented with some huge cavernous reverbs that evoked a Freljordian mountaintop, but mixed very subtly behind the voice, so that you “felt” them more than heard them, but this didn’t feel right on the landscape and architecture of Summoner’s Rift.

00:04
I’m currently experimenting with injecting a more ursine read, and I’m working with some animalistic and bear-related textures, so hopefully I can blend this into a cohesive voice that feels like it’s coming from one unified bear god. Here’s a preview of how Voli is sounding now, which is probably pretty close to final.

00:10
Arctic Skin Ops
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist

With champion updates, we’re always looking for ways to take older skins and make them something really special now that we have a better understanding of our style, IP, and skin worlds. With the addition of Northern Front Swain, we felt like creating a really cool Arctic Ops version of Northern Storm Volibear would be exciting and match the feeling the skin was originally going for.

Using the Arctic Ops skin line for inspiration, + BEAR, + ELECTRICITY, we went for a first round of ideas.

18_Northern_Storm_Volibear_Concepts1.jpg
Option “C” immediately grabbed everyone’s attention. For a while, we considered keeping some form of the hat since it was a big part of the classic skin, but we felt like the tactical mask, gear, and tesla tech freshened up the existing motif of “cool winter tech.” Now to give him pants…

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin
Arctic Ops Skin
We experimented with a few different color options to be sure the camo worked on him and didn’t look too busy or out of character. We opted for the more white/monochromatic version, as the others started to feel like they could be trendy ski jackets.

We also had to figure out what the Northern Storm version of the frozen lightning spikes on Volibear’s back could be. Our idea was to turn them into antennas that would charge up his electricity. We didn’t want the pack on his back to be mistaken for an internet router, so we added charges and a “power” lightning symbol to it. Throughout concepting, we had to make sure the patterns and tech gear still looked good when Voli ran on all fours—a challenge throughout all of development.

Next we made a quick 3D proxy model to be sure this skin design would work on his base rig and that the breather mask could open with his jaw, because our bear is a biter.

22_Northern_Front_Volibear_.jpg
Our team was stoked to work on Northern Storm Volibear, as it’s a vastly different fantasy from base Volibear and felt unique in his skin lineup. We hope you like the final concept! And with that, we’re off to continue updating the rest of Voli’s skins.

23_Northern_Storm_Volibear_Logo.jpg
OUTRO
That's about all we have for Volibear today, but be on the lookout: There's a stream storm fast-approaching. Huddle up in the Freljord as we await its landfall. You'll hear more soon.

… one last thing before we go. The “Eldritch Horror” Volibear skin (which will be given out for free to all players who own or pick up Volibear during his launch patch) now has an official name: Thousand Pierced Volibear.

We leave you with a small tease of its horrifying splash art.
Editorial note: This is the second of a two-part look back on TFT’s creation. To learn more about the first eight weeks, check out part one.

After eight weeks of testing, optimizing, and lagging, the team had a TFT prototype. And although it wasn’t exactly pretty, it was fun as f*&#$. Which meant phase one—make a fun thing—was complete. Up next? Throw out the entire prototype and actually build the game in 10 weeks.

“When we got the greenlight to move forward with production, we knew we needed a lot more people,” says Riot Wittrock. “Luckily, Meddler was able to get some other teams from League to move over and join us. And an R&D project had recently been canceled, so quite a few of them jumped on as well.”


Here are the devs you’ll be hearing from, who are just a small part of that early TFT team:


Riot Nullarbor
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER ― CAMERON ROYAL
Cameron writes code for League of Legends. Also known as that Australian with the obsessively clean desk.

Riot Wrekz
SENIOR GAME DESIGNER ― JORDAN ANTON
Jordan designs games during the day, plays games and at night, and waits for it to snow all year.

Riot Wittrock
GAME DESIGNER ― MATTHEW WITTROCK
Set Designer on TFT. Spends his days making, collecting, and playing games.

Riot Stimhack
DATA SCIENTIST ― RAN CAO
Ran develops machine learning features for Teamfight Tactics. She knows your MMR, she gives you LP, and sometimes she matches you against the strongest player in the lobby.

Riot MapleNectar
PRODUCT LEAD ― RICHARD HENKEL
MapleNectar was the product lead for TFT. Since the time of this interview, he’s retired from Riot and moved to the frozen tundra of Canada to partake in the consumption of mass quantities of maple syrup and poutine.

Meddler
GAME DIRECTOR ― ANDREI VAN ROON
Medler works with the League teams on balance, champions, game modes, progression systems, skins, events, and annual Ryze reworks.

Kilmourz
PRINCIPAL TECHNICAL ARTIST ― TED BARBER
Ted is a master artist, gifted musician, talented skateboarder, and is remarkably handy with a compass. He was a primary contributor for the environment art for TFT, and now resides on Wild Rift helping bring League to phones around the world.
10 Weeks Until Launch: Leaping Off a Sinking Ship
01_10_Weeks_PDF.png
“We always knew the prototype was throw-away. It was really just a picture of what we could build, but not what we would actually build,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “So we reset and started to build again. Only we did it properly this time.”

“Properly” meant the team was no longer cobbling something together on Summoner’s Rift. It was time to bring in the engineers to develop scalable code. With the fundamental game design choices in place—like having a controllable avatar and purchasing units through the UI rather than physical models—the team was able to get started quickly.

But that doesn’t mean they stopped using the prototype build completely, as it was a great way to test ideas before the final build was ready.

“While the engineers were working, we needed to continue playtesting to adjust the roster, tweak the UI, test items and the shop, and all of that,” Riot Wittrock says. “So we continued to use the prototype while the shippable game was being built separately.”

02_Units_are_not_where_they_appear_to_be-(2).jpg
Eventually the team needed to face cold, hard reality and send their darling prototype to pasture.

“The prototype was really held together with duct tape and popsicle sticks,” jokes Riot Wrekz. “As we were progressing with the final build, we went from having one version of the game that worked (the prototype), to two versions of the game that didn’t work (the prototype and the final build), and then, ultimately, one version of the game that worked (the final build… hopefully).”

“I just remember hearing one day that there were all these bugs in the prototype we weren’t going to fix,” says Riot Stimhack. “There was a long list of bugs, but it wasn’t worth having someone go in to fix them anymore.”

“It was like leaping off a sinking ship,” laughs Riot Nullarbor.

7 Weeks Until Launch: Refining The Roster
03_7_Weeks_PDF.png
With seven weeks to PBE, it was time to lock down the initial roster of champions.

“League has a really wide universe,” shares Riot Wittrock. “We wanted to have a good breadth of what the League roster has to offer while still hitting on traditional fantasies. I wanted my ninjas, my dragons. That kind of stuff.”

As the team worked to narrow the roster down they realized that something was off.

“There were a lot of humans,” laughs Riot Stimhack. “It felt a little shallow. But it was also hard to tell the difference between all of the humans standing in a row.”

Luckily League has demons, Void creatures, vastaya, and... yordles.

“We cut things based on feedback from the whole team. So it didn’t really feel bad cutting some things we liked,” Riot Wittrock adds. “We knew we were going to make future sets, so we could add those champions later.”



The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.

The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.

The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.
The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.
So who almost made the first cut?

“Lux was a champion in Set 1 for a while,” Kilmourz offers.

“Oh yeah! The roster was completely different,” Riot Wittrock recalls. “We were playing with Lux, Lee Sin, and Bard for a really long time.”

“Ugh... Bard was the trolliest unit,” Riot Nullarbor interjects. “That ult. Half your team would just suddenly stop fighting.”

“It honestly doesn’t feel like it was that long ago that we had Bard in the game,” adds Meddler.

“Don’t worry,” Riot Wittrock smiles. “Bard will come back some day.”

With champions all but locked, the team focused on a different roster.

06_LL_Concept1.png
“Scuttle was really popular when we were testing it in the prototype, and we knew we wanted to make Little Legends,” Riot Wrekz says. “So we decided to run some ‘personalization’ tests when building the final version.”

“Yeah, people willingly gave their money to Riot Wrekz,” laughs Riot Wittrock.

“No! Well, not really. The entire system was run on sticky notes,” Riot Wrekz admits. “It was an honor system. If you won a playtest you could ‘purchase’ a sticky note with the skin you wanted. And then you were allowed to use that skin.”

“I remember that! It was so fun and motivational,” Riot Stimhack adds. “Everyone wanted those sticky notes.”

5 Weeks Until Launch: Sickness in the Convergence
07_5_Weeks_PDF.png
“We knew we wanted a PvP game where players would fight each other, but we had no idea how to actually get people to each others’ boards,” Riot Wrekz says.

Warning: May cause motion sickness.

“At first we had this boat that you’d ride to travel between boards,” remembers Kilmourz. “You’d get on and sail from one board to the next. But it didn’t fade to black, and the camera would have to swing around to fix the board orientation.”

“Yeah, we had to rotate the camera 180 degrees, so the air ships would launch across the map and the camera would spin while you were traveling,” adds Riot Wrekz.

Pirate ships are all fun and games until someone gets seasick.

“Some of the most magical moments were flying through the mystical void on my ship and passing other people along the way. But then I’d hear people retching behind me because of the motion sickness. That broke the magic really quickly,” says Riot MapleNectar. “I still miss it though.”

To solve the motion sickness issue, the team sacrificed their seaworthy ships and used a vortex portal to travel between boards instead.

4 Weeks Until Launch: The Board
09_4_Weeks_PDF.png
“For the majority of TFT’s development the board was played left-to-right, rather than top-to-bottom,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “We changed a lot with the board quite late in the process.”

In the beginning, the team wanted to make sure that decision-making during the placement stage was important, so they started by making the board smaller. But when players began to give feedback, they realized it wasn’t having the desired effect.

10_Dead_People_(1).png
“The feedback was pretty much unanimous between experienced and inexperienced autobattler players: The boards were too cramped. So we were like, ‘Shit,’” Riot Wittrock laughs. “We needed to think about how we could add more space. At this point we had pretty much everything built out. There were textures, and the artists were already almost done with the boards.”

How could the team get more space without losing precious time completely re-designing, modeling, and skinning the boards?

“At some point we realized that if we flipped the boards from left-to-right to bottom-to-top we’d gain an extra column and the feeling of a larger board,” Riot MapleNectar explains. “It made perfect sense.”

It really did. The team delivered on the feeling of a larger board without actually making the board larger. And with such an aggressive timeline, it would be pure upsides. Right? ...Right?


“After we re-oriented the boards, we ran into the problem where it was almost impossible to see certain champions behind others,” says Kilmourz. “The characters were standing right behind one another, so you’d have giants like Mordekaiser occluding smaller units like Vayne. It made it impossible to see what was going on.”

But there wasn’t enough time to go back to the drawing board again and re-create the boards. They’d found one compromise with rotating the board but created new problems with clarity. So, what now?

The answer was simple: hexagons.

12_For_Brad.jpg
“We’d always considered hexes,” Riot Nullarbor recalls. “We were using squares for a long time, but hexes were never out of the question.”

Hexes have two great properties. Because they have more sides, they’re closer to circles, which makes AoE spells map better. They also distribute champions better and make it much easier to immediately recognize a champ’s silhouette.

“We were really interested in some of the strategic implications of the switch to hexagons, too,” says Riot Wittrock. “There’s an added layer of complexity, you know? There’s more variance in the specificity of positioning. And then you have the orientation of the hexes to think about. It’s just a huge array of design choices that’s really exciting.”

The hexagons also allowed for slightly more organic movement for the art team. Instead of harsh, right angle movements, they were able to keep more natural animations in place.

“We were really excited to leverage some of League’s unique environment art to make boards look awesome,” shares Riot Wrekz. “And the hexes allowed us to create board assets that weren’t perfectly rectangular. It really opened a lot more doors than we were expecting.”

2 Weeks Until Launch: The Finishing Touches
16_2_Weeks_PDF.png
“I’ll never forget the flip-flopping of emotions we all had during the entire process,” Riot MapleNectar remembers. “In the morning we’d come into the office full of hope. Then, by noon, we can’t f&*$#ing make it. After lunch, okay, we might be able to do this thing. And then at night, no, no we definitely can’t. And that was rinse and repeat daily.”

With two weeks left until launch, the team needed to hurry the hell up and finish the damn thing. And that meant adding the minor details.

“We had kind of put the visual effects on hold until we finished with the gameplay,” Kilmourz explains. “Then we had to make a strike team because the fights were too visually loud. You couldn’t tell what was going on between the visual effects, spells, and level ups. EVERYTHING was animating.”

17_Carousel_Gif_Bug.gif
“We had kind of put the visual effects on hold until we finished with the gameplay,” Kilmourz explains. “Then we had to make a strike team because the fights were too visually loud. You couldn’t tell what was going on between the visual effects, spells, and level ups. EVERYTHING was animating.”

18_VFX.jpg
In an effort to save time, the team brought a lot of the assets over from League, but it turns out they’d brought over a bit too much. So they went back and trimmed. And trimmed... And trimmed.


“With nine champions on each team doing stuff at the same time... It was a lot,” laughs Riot Stimhack.

The art team had another challenge to undertake, although it was much... littler in scale.

“Typically, all of our splashes are hand painted digitally by illustrators. But we didn’t really have the time to do that for the Little Legends,” says Kilmourz. “So, instead, we had to render them in Maya and then painted over that to match League splashes.”

Meanwhile...

“I was in so many meetings with publishing folks where they’d ask if we were on track for the launch, and I just said yes with confidence,” laughs Riot MapleNectar. “Meanwhile back in the pit nothing was working. I mean, we were making progress, but the build was broken. And that was within 10 days of launch. I had faith in the team.”

20_widdle_gwffie.gif
1 Week Until Launch: Internal Playtests
21_1_Week_PDF.png
With a week left until PBE, it was time to get feedback from players. Was TFT actually any fun? Did the games feel exciting? Which Little Legend was best? The important stuff. So they turned to the only place they could: Rioters.

“I still don’t know who made the call, but we held an open internal playtest. We set TFT up and sent out an email,” shares Riot Wittrock. “I don’t know if I fully realized it was even happening. All of these people just started giving us feedback, engaging with the game, and they were having fun. I won’t forget that moment. It felt really good.”

Officially, the playtest was for performance and load testing—basically to get as many people playing as possible. And boy, did it exceed expectations.

“For a really long time we were trying to convince people to come to our desks at 5pm and play on our computers,” Riot Wittrock recalls. “It was crazy going from that to suddenly having tons of people queue up for a live game.”

“Yeah, there were games at 2am,” Riot Wrekz laughs.

“That was one of the most incredible moments,” Riot MapleNectar adds. “I remember waking up really early in the morning and there were two Rioters from Russia asking if anyone wanted to play. And then three people from Australia joined. And a few minutes later some from Japan. And just... Suddenly we’d shipped this fledgling game to the world of Riot. And people from around the world were playing together. All of the team’s hard work felt so validated.”

Launch Day
22_0_Weeks_PDF.png
“I’m pretty sure the day we went to PBE was the happiest day of my career,” says Riot MapleNectar. “It was like, we turned on the queue at 1pm. And then someone said we had 1,000 players in-game. And we all started clapping and cheering. It was like we’d launched a missile into space. The four months leading up to that moment... It was just like, ‘F&*$% it. We did it.’”

“When you say, ‘We all started clapping and cheering,” what exactly do you mean?” Meddler asks.

“I mean, like, everyone in our pit and the game modes team,” answers Riot MapleNectar.

“Because that cheer made it all around the office,” Meddler responds. “At least in our area.”

“What? Really? I didn’t know that!” Riot MapleNectar smiles.

“I remember the cheer moment,” Riot Stimhack adds.

“No one wanted to get left out,” laughs Riot Wrekz. “Some people had no idea what was going on, but they were like, ‘Yeahhhhhh!’ And clapping.”

“I just remember being surprised because the PBE normally seems to be massively over-provisioned for what it needs,” Riot Nullarbor shares. “On a normal day the PBE is running at about 10% capacity. But then on TFT launch day it was at 100% with a really, really long queue.”

“When we saw the queue a bunch of us were just sitting around hitting F5 and watching the Twitch viewer count go up,” Meddler laughs. “‘Oh, 20,000! Now it’s 50,000! I wonder how high it’ll go!’ And eventually it culminated in Riot MapleNectar running around and high-fiving everyone. It was kind of adorable.”

23_tft_map2.jpg

And Now?
“I’m just really excited for the future,” shares Riot Wittrock. “The creation and launch were just two of the many steps of—what I hope is—a game for years to come. I’m excited thinking back on everything, but I really think it’s just one of the checkpoints in the history of TFT.”

The team accomplished something that had, really, never been done at Riot: They made something for players from scratch in only a few months. From janky prototype on Summoner’s Rift to full-blown game mode.

“I think, genuinely, it was the coolest to work on a team of incredibly talented and passionate people. Everyone was running in the same direction, and that’s what let us get this done so quickly,” says Riot MapleNectar. “Literally every single person was pivotal to making TFT. There wasn’t a single person we could have done without. And I can only hope to get a similar experience in the future. Because this feels incredibly unique. I think it’s a once in a lifetime thing.”

In just 18 weeks TFT went live to players around the world. Now we’re nearly a year in and on Set 3 (Galaxies!), and the team is still optimistic about what’s to come. So here’s to them, and to you. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to make TFT. And thank you for playing.
Editorial note: Hey! Instead of dumping an absolute truckload of text on you, we decided to split this story into two-parts. The second part will be available tomorrow, 4/3, at 10:00am PT.

“Hey, have you tried Auto Chess?” There was no escaping this question at Riot in the first few months of 2019—either you were talking Auto Chess, or you risked being “ok boomer”ed by your team.

It didn’t take long for that question to become, “Wait, why don’t we make something like this?” We thought it was worth a try, but it needed to be done quickly because there was no way we were the only ones thinking this could be a big deal. Still, it didn’t make sense to take a bunch of League’s devs off their projects to pursue something we weren’t 100% sure about. So we kept the team small. Twelve people small.

Since we didn’t want to risk being left behind, we gave ourselves an... aggressive timeline. Eighteen weeks. Eight to see if we could make something fun and ten to actually do it. That left us with two questions: How do we even? And who’s dumb enough to try?

The devs you’ll be hearing from (who are just a small part of the initial TFT team):


Riot Nullarbor
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER ― CAMERON ROYAL
Cameron writes code for League of Legends. Also known as that Australian with the obsessively clean desk.

Riot Wrekz
SENIOR GAME DESIGNER ― JORDAN ANTON
Jordan designs games during the day, plays games and at night, and waits for it to snow all year.

Riot Wittrock
GAME DESIGNER ― MATTHEW WITTROCK
Set Designer on TFT. Spends his days making, collecting, and playing games.

Riot Stimhack
DATA SCIENTIST ― RAN CAO
Ran develops machine learning features for Teamfight Tactics. She knows your MMR, she gives you LP, and sometimes she matches you against the strongest player in the lobby.

Riot MapleNectar
PRODUCT LEAD ― RICHARD HENKEL
MapleNectar was the product lead for TFT. Since the time of this interview, he’s retired from Riot and moved to the frozen tundra of Canada to partake in the consumption of mass quantities of maple syrup and poutine.

Meddler
GAME DIRECTOR ― ANDREI VAN ROON
Medler works with the League teams on balance, champions, game modes, progression systems, skins, events, and annual Ryze reworks.

Kilmourz
PRINCIPAL TECHNICAL ARTIST ― TED BARBER
Ted is a master artist, gifted musician, talented skateboarder, and is remarkably handy with a compass. He was a primary contributor for the environment art for TFT, and now resides on Wild Rift helping bring League to phones around the world.
18 Weeks Until Launch: The Countdown Begins
“We went through all the pitches for a League autobattler and formed a high-level outline,” says Meddler.

There were three goals: Improve the design (better controls and UI, faster rounds, etc.), apply our over 200 years of collective experience (read: balancing and adding features), and—arguably the most important—make it fun enough that the b o o m e r s who weren’t playing Auto Chess wanted to play.

“Once the core team was formed, we had eight weeks to identify whether it was even possible to build,” shares Riot Wrekz. “And we had to figure out if it was any good. We wanted it to be unique and fun, but still have that thing that drew us to the genre.”

01_Doomsday_Clock.jpg
“On day one I put a giant red doomsday clock on the wall,” laughs Riot Wittrock. “It was a little intimidating, but we kept it up as a constant reminder that we needed to remain focused.”

17 Weeks Until Launch: League of Prototypes
02_17_Weeks_PDF.png
“We spent a lot of time the first few weeks figuring out how to get a prototype working. Which... was a challenge,” says Riot Wittrock.

The team started by using assets from League—which wasn’t always smooth sailing.

03_Darius_AFK.png
League’s game engine is custom-built for one thing: League of Legends. And while some things change (like the map, champions, and dragons), the number of players (generally) doesn’t.

“Because League’s so heavily hyper-optimized for a 10-player game and the 8-player version of TFT we envisioned loaded significantly more assets, we would actually have to run more servers to support the same number of players,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “It was quite taxing on the game client as well.”

On top of this, we wanted players to be able to recruit units (aka champions), place them strategically, and witness the ensuing battle—this “army commander” fantasy was one of the things we found so appealing about Auto Chess. But to do that, each player needed to field more than one champion at a time. And that wasn’t something the servers were built to handle.

That meant nearly every early game of TFT ended because of lag. There was no finish. No victory. Only lag.

04_Rakan_Bug_TFT.gif
Even in later versions of the prototype, lag wasn’t the only bug the team encountered. How do I hold all of these Rakans?

“There were nine units fighting nine other units, plus up to 10 champions sitting on each player’s bench,” says Riot Nullarbor. “There could be over 100 champions in the game at once, plus these crazy teamfights constantly going on. We had to remove a lot of things that weren’t necessary and then optimize the code. League’s got a much bigger map than we needed, so we were able to cut a lot of that out to get things running.”

15-12 Weeks Until Launch: The Gameplay
05_15_Weeks_PDF.png
Riot’s open floor plan means that people are free to walk around, look at walls lined with art, awkwardly scan name tags to find the person who uses a photo of their dog as their Slack icon, and chat at peoples’ desks. It encourages collaboration and idea-sharing, but sometimes it’s counterproductive, especially if you’re trying to sprint to a finish line that could be in any direction.

“We spent most of the eight weeks of prototyping isolated from the rest of the company. We went as far as pushing ourselves into a corner and putting walls around the team so no one could come and talk to us,” Riot Nullarbor says.

“Yeah, Andrei sent out a bunch of emails basically asking other folks who were interested in what we were doing to not come share their ideas,” Riot Wrekz adds. “It was unusual for Riot and felt a little bit exclusionary, but it was important for efficiency.”

“And influence,” offers Kilmourz. “Leaders wanted us to explore on our own and not be too influenced by other games in the genre.”

So the team sat in a small corner and tried to figure out how the hell they were going to make TFT.

Week 14: Trains, Towns, and User Interface
06_14_Weeks_PDF.png
“How do you buy units from the shop? Are they just part of the UI or did the models appear? Do you have an avatar to move around or is everything click and drag?” says Riot Wrekz. “There were a bunch of fundamental control schemes we needed to decide on early.”

There wasn’t really a UI at all at first, since most of the early efforts went to making the prototype run.

“In the beginning, we were trying to understand the game through a series of debug messages printed in chat,” says Riot Nullarbor.

“We just broke stuff if it wasn’t going to be used in the final version of TFT,” Riot Wrekz explains. “So when we did make UI changes... well, we didn’t actually make UI changes during the prototype. We just demolished the League of Legends UI and built what we wanted on top of the smoking wreckage.”


Senior QA lead Alex “Riot Ranger XIV” Sherrell showing off some very fancy new TFT UI.



Figuring out TFT’s basic UI forced the team to think about how champions even arrived at players’ boards. And some of the ideas were pretty... interesting.

“At some point we imagined that champions would arrive on trains,” Riot Nullarbor recalls. “We’d have a little train depot where it’d park with champions that you could purchase.”

Even though the image of Garen, Darius, and Warwick politely sitting side-by-side waiting to be purchased was oddly adorable, the idea quickly derailed. The re-rolling function would require the trains to arrive and depart quickly to keep games from taking too long. And while supersonic trains rolling in and out of your board would be a fun flex, the amount of resources it’d require to run and animate would be too taxing.

“We also explored having a town around the board that would level up and get bigger the further you progressed,” says Riot Wittrock. “Champions would sit on the left side of your board in a little shop, and you’d buy ’em by grabbing and throwing them onto the field.”

The team sadly ended up going for a different approach for practical reasons...


“League forces you to load into the game as something,” shares Riot Wittrock. “Early on we used Scuttle because it was native to League.”

Scuttle was a little crazy in the beginning. At one point, you could pick up other Scuttles with your own chad Scuttle and throw them around. Or you could pick champions up from your bench mid-battle and dump them into a Tahm Kench-shaped garbage can, showing your opponent exactly what you thought of their Assassin comp.

10_Baron_for_Scale_Shareable.png
There was also a bug where Scuttle grew exponentially, eventually dwarfing Baron.

Although the crab-on-crab warfare went a little too far, it added a layer of fun and interaction that the team really liked, and thus Little Legends were (eventually) born.

Week 13: The Roster
11_13_Weeks_PDF.png
“We viewed champions in TFT as little love letters to their League counterparts,” says Riot Wrekz. “We wanted to find a way to make the core thematic for each champion shine through, even though we couldn’t use every single one of their abilities.”

12_TFT_Combat.gif
“We didn’t want to just use the ults for every champion,” adds Kilmourz. “Take Braum, for instance. You’d expect him to just do his ult, but the most iconic thing about Braum is probably his shield.”

The team generally had an easy time simplifying each champion, which sometimes meant using multiple abilities, like Lucian’s dash and double shot. But grouping champions into categories for traits was a bit more difficult.

“We’ve tried for so many years to make champions feel really unique,” Riot Wittrock explains. “Which is great for League of Legends! But we ran into problems when trying to group them for TFT.”

Factions and origins stood out as the obvious categories.

“When we started splitting champions up into their factions, we realized it didn’t always make perfect sense,” Riot Wrekz admits. “Garen is from Demacia, Darius is from Noxus, sure. But then you have champs like Janna... It’s not exactly clear that she’s from Zaun. We started to run into so many edge cases that just didn’t make a lot of sense.”



The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.
The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.
“An important learning moment was when we realized we could lean into League’s alternate universes,” says Riot Wittrock. “We ended up going with a pretty subtle approach, but exploring universes helped us make groupings that made more sense and felt thematically appropriate.”

Week 12: FIGHT!
17_12_Weeks_PDF.png
“We really liked the buying and planning phases in autobattlers,” explains Riot Wittrock. “But the combat tended to be this zoomed-out view with a lot of spell effects going off, making things difficult to understand. We really wanted to improve on that.”

The plan? Make combat as exciting as possible without sacrificing clarity.

“We wanted it to feel like you’re observing a Bronze teamfight,” Riot Wittrock shares. “It’s a bunch of people casting their spells in a way that kind of makes sense, but it’s not like watching Diamond players. It feels like a League teamfight, just... a little wrong.”

“We wanted to avoid the cloud of visual effects and particles that we saw elsewhere,” says Riot MapleNectar. “At first, it was hard to see what was going on underneath 18 champions casting abilities, so we needed to spend time cleaning things up.”

In addition to cutting back on some of the VFX, the team found some other unique ways to increase visual clarity.

19_Initial_Speeds_TFT.gif
Initial animation speeds were a little too quick.

20_Proposed_Speeds_TFT.gif
Slowed down animations.

“A lot of the animations in League are super fast,” explains Kilmourz. “Spellcasting is all about feeling responsive and satisfying. But it made it difficult to see what was happening in a 9v9 fight. So we had to slow everything way down.”

11 Weeks Until Launch: The Greenlight
21_11_Weeks_PDF.png
After eight weeks of testing, optimizing, and lagging, the team had a prototype. And although it wasn’t exactly pretty, it was fun as f*&#$.

“At the start of the entire process, we kept promising that the prototype would be good,” reminisces Riot Wrekz. “And then when people finally got to play it, they agreed.”

Which meant phase one—make a fun thing—was complete. Up next? Throw out the entire prototype and actually build the game in 10 weeks.

Editorial note: Be sure to check back tomorrow, 4/3, at 10:00am PT for the rest of TFT’s story.
Intro
The start of a new Teamfight Tactics set is the best time to revisit some of our core systems that need an update. As with everything, we’re always looking for ways to improve the core of TFT, so we’ve got quite a few changes coming we think will be pretty positive. So let’s take a look at them as you’ll encounter them during a typical game.

The Carousel
Right away, you’ll notice that the first carousel is all 1-cost champions instead of 2-cost champions. The main reason for this has to do with income changes we’ll talk about in a second, but we also found that these 2-cost champions never had the effect we originally intended. Though we wanted the first champ to guide your comp, it turned out that simply selling a 2-cost champion was almost always the best decision. Now the cost of keeping that champion is much lower, and it should be a viable option.

But that’s not the biggest change. In Rise of the Elements, the arrangement of items got pretty stale. Early on in the set, you could predictably count on most of the items to be there, including the Spatula. Getting one of those on the first carousel was quite powerful, and many viable strategies involved losing early to get a good economy and an almost-guaranteed Spatula. In the later part of the set, we removed Spatula, which showed some promise, but was also too restrictive to gameplay variety. So we’re adding a LOT of variation to carousel possibilities.

Spatula can now appear on the carousel again, but much less often than before.
Full items can show up earlier than the fifth carousel.
Components can show up in the sixth carousel and beyond.
Many new carousel arrangements have been added.
CarouselAllRods.jpg


This is all leaning into our goal of making adaptability the most rewarding skill. For example, you may go to the second carousel and find it’s all full items. You’ll need to think on your feet and change your plan accordingly. Look out for all the new possible ways the carousel can play out!


Income
For most of Rise of the Elements, there has just been too much gold in the system. Your first and second shops were basically no decision (you just buy everything) and it was possible to hit 30 gold before the first PVP round. We’re going to be toning that down a lot.

Passive Income (by stage): 1-2-5-4-5-5… >>> 0-2-2-3-4-5-5…
Gold & Champions Medium boxes can’t drop in the first two PVE rounds.
This leads to tough decisions in the early game. When you only have a 1-gold champ from the first carousel and 2 gold from passive income, you actually have to think about your first shop. We believe this will lead to more strategic decision-making and interesting gameplay. But to make sure you don’t get put into a bad situation with the smaller amounts of gold, we’re making one more change:

Level 3 Champion drop buckets (by Tier): (70%/25%/5%/0%/0%) >>> (70%/30%/0%/0%/0%)
Now at Level 3, you won’t get put in a bad situation when you roll one or more Tier 3 champions and can’t afford them.

Another change we're making is to increase the viability of aiming for a win or loss streak rather than just backing into it.

Streak Breakpoints: 2-3(1g), 4-6(2g), 7+(3g) >>> 2-3(1g), 4-5(2g), 6+(3g)
Streak gold is now paid during PVE rounds.
Finally, the last change is one we’re making to even the playing field a bit. There's been an unintended (and frankly not well known) trick where you can sell your carousel champion during the transition to the next stage to hit a higher-than-intended gold breakpoint. So we're removing the ability to sell champions during the carousel stage.

Player Damage
We’re making a pretty big change to player damage to simplify the system a bit. We're also reducing the difference in damage you take round to round depending on how bad you lose.

Base Damage Per Stage: 0/2/3/4/5/6/7 >>> 0/3/4/6/10/14/20
Additional damage per surviving champion is now +1 damage, no matter the cost or star level of the champion.
If everything is done correctly, the pace of the game should be very similar to what you’re experiencing on live (maybe a LITTLE slower in the early game), but it should be much easier to figure out how much damage you’re going to take. In addition, running into that super-strong enemy who high-rolled a very strong comp won’t be quite as punishing as it was before.

Combat
We also took a good look at what we could do to improve combat, and found—well, quite a bit. Here’s the breakdown:

Melee champions now move slightly earlier at the start of combat than ranged champions.
Champions now move more smoothly from hex to hex when walking.
If a champion is in the attack range of their target, and the target moves out of range, the attacker will now only chase their target for 1 hex before switching to the closest enemy.
These changes should improve a lot of the rougher cases we saw in Rise of the Elements, such as ranged units walking into melee range, or champions walking around aimlessly trying to chase moving targets. This should result in better-feeling combat all around.

Mana gain from attacking by star level: 8/10/12 >>> 10/10/10
Throughout Rise of the Elements, we saw that MOST of the 1-star champions were just too weak to consider running. (Annie was a notable exception.) We’re going to be making changes to things like spell powers to make them a more viable option. This should help 1-star champions cast more often and be more relevant.

Grievous Wounds: 80% Healing Reduction >>> 50% Healing Reduction
Even at 80%, things like Morellonomicon, Red Buff, and Kindred were too strong at shutting down healing options. This led to cases where comps that rely on healing as an output (Light being the main example) either being REALLY strong if the opponent didn’t have Grievous Wounds, or REALLY weak if they did. So we’re going to be pulling back a bit, which should allow us to balance the heals a bit more evenly. You should still want Grievous against a Soraka, but not feel like the Soraka no longer does anything.

Every champion now has an AP scaler on their abilities. AP can scale things other than damage/healing/shielding.
We actually dabbled in this a little bit in Rise of the Elements. Did you know that Karma’s shield AND the attack speed bonus scaled with AP? We found that it was pretty beneficial to let every champion use AP in some way, so that more items could be used and open up new build options. So now every champ uses AP somehow. Take a look and see what kind of crazy triple Deathcap 6 Sorcerer options you can discover!

Other System Changes worth noting
Level 7 Drops (20%/30%/33%/15%/2%) >>> (20%/30%/33%/16%/1%)
Neeko’s Help is ~35% less likely to drop from all boxes.
Increased Spatula drop rate from Gold Boxes.
Disarm no longer prevents spell casts. Only auto attacks.
We’re reducing the chance of seeing a Legendary champion at Level 7. We still want them to appear at Level 7 and won’t budge on that, but we want more incentive to level up. If you really need that Legendary champ to finish your comp, you’re better off just leveling to 8. Neeko’s Help is also appearing a bit too often, as we want that item to feel rare and special, so we’re lowering that. Spatula drop rate is up very slightly, so you may see more of them from Gold Boxes. And finally the Disarm status effect is no longer basically a stun. It was kind of silly that being disarmed prevented you from casting spells, so now if you’re disarmed but at full mana, you can cast! We feel this allows us to use Disarm more as a status effect as well, so expect to see at least 1 champion who can Disarm with their ability.

Items
Last thing to cover is items. We’re continually looking at the items, both in terms of balance and satisfaction, and we saw an opportunity to change quite a few of them. You’re going to see 3 new replacement items and then a bunch of balance changes. Let’s break down the new items:


Hush ⇒ Chalice of Favor (Tear of the Goddess + Negatron Cloak)

Whenever you cast your spell, give all nearby allies 10 mana.
Chalice is a new item that requires you to position your team around it to get the full effect, but it can be incredibly strong if you’re willing to do so. For example, putting the item on someone who casts very early in a fight gives your entire team a bunch of mana, accelerating their spell casts and giving you the edge. If you played the Launch Set, it’s kind of like Twisted Fate’s Blue Card!


Iceborne Gauntlet ⇒ Shroud of Stillness (Brawler’s Glove + Chain Mail)

At the start of combat, shoot a beam forward that causes all enemies hit to have their max mana increased by 40% until they cast once.
Shroud of Stillness is a new positional item, kind of like Zephyr, but with a much bigger risk/reward payoff. When you place the item and move your champion, you will see a purple beam.

Shroud_Example.png
At the start of combat, every enemy hit by the beam has their max mana increased by 40% until they cast once. (Kind of like Poison, but not permanent.) If you can hit key champions with this, it can have a big impact and delay their spells… but it can also completely whiff if you didn’t position right. Positioning around this should open up a new challenge!


Titanic Hydra ⇒ Zz’Rot Portal (Recurve Bow + Giant’s Belt)

Upon death, summon a Voidling with 1000/2000/4000 HP that taunts all nearby enemies
Finally we have Zz’Rot Portal. We wanted to give a good general-use item to teams that may need more front line, and Zz’Rot portal is great for this. Put this on a front line champion that casts a key spell, and after they die, they spawn a tanky Voidling that taunts, buying you a lot of time.

Hopefully these new items open up more options. In addition, we’re making the following balance changes to items to make sure all the possible items are viable based on Galaxies and the situation:

Deathblade Starting Stacks: 1 ⇒ 3
Giant Slayer: 9% current HP ⇒ 12% current HP physical damage
Hextech Gunblade Vamp: 33% ⇒ 35%
Ionic Spark: Now also reduces nearby enemies’ MR by 50% (does not stack)
Quicksilver: CC Immune ⇒ CC Immune for the first 10 seconds.
Rabadon’s Deathcap Bonus AP: 75% ⇒ 50%
Redemption: Wearer heals entire team for 800 hp on death
Runaan’s Hurricane projectile damage 60% ⇒ 70% of standard
Statikk Shiv: 85 ⇒ 70 dmg per bounce
Warmog’s Armor: 6% missing HP ⇒ 5% missing HP, max of 150 HP/tick
Zeke’s Herald: 15% AS ⇒ 18% AS
Zephyr Banish Duration: 6 sec ⇒ 5 sec
Outro
So, there ya go! A lot to look forward to. Give it a try and let us know what you think! Our goal is that these changes continue to make TFT better. The genre as a whole is still new, so we’re learning as we go, but we’re confident that with your continued passion and feedback, TFT will be a great game for years to come. Have fun in Galaxies!
TL;DR: Over the next six months or so we'll ship a number of changes and improvements to the League client's backend infrastructure. To track our process, we'll be sharing specific targets for two main client performance metrics: client bootstrap time (how long it takes for the client to boot up) and champ select lock-in time. In the process of improving these metrics, we'll also be tackling things like bugs, crashes, etc. Put simply, our goal is to fix the client.

"Riot, when are you going to fix the client?"

It's a question a lot of you have been asking. The client is not in great shape. It's got too many bugs, too much lag (especially in champ select), and a whole host of issues like memory leaks, crashes, freezes, and on and on. We've made commitments to do something about the client before, and yet problems remain.

So we want to try something different.

Instead of talking in vague terms about our plans, today we're sharing specific performance targets and clear details on the changes we intend to ship over the next six months.

First, let's talk about some recent performance improvements we've made and dig into some hard numbers that will serve as guideposts as we pursue future improvements.

THE CLIENT IN NUMBERS
Late last year, we added some tools to the client that allow us to track basic performance indicators like, for example, the amount of time it takes for the client to boot up and become fully functional (aka "bootstrap").

We would like bootstrap to take under 15 seconds, even for players with relatively slow machines. However, we found that, currently, bootstrap can take up to three or even four times that long for some players.

Another major thing we've been tracking is "champ select lock-in" time. This is the amount of time that it takes the client to register that you've locked in your champ after you click the button. In the chart below, you'll see average response times for champ select lock-in during patch 9.22 (orange line) and in patch 10.2 (blue line). Lock-in response time is calculated in milliseconds.

champselectpercentile.png
The chart above shows how vastly different champ-select response times can be for different players. Of course, client performance varies depending on how fast your machine is. If, for instance, it takes under 200ms for you to lock-in, your machine is in the 10th percentile, and your response times are faster than 90% of all players. Likewise, if response times for you are over 800ms, you're in the 90th percentile, which means your client is running slower for you than for 90% of all players.

As you can see, lock-in times got a lot better for players during patch 10.2 compared to patch 9.22. The big reason for the improvement is that, in patch 9.23, we updated the version of Chromium that the client runs on. It got us some big gains, but we think the client is still far too slow for many of you.

To see what we mean, let's take a peek at a more detailed view of champ select lock-in response speed over time for a few of those specific groups.

threepercentiles.png
As you can see, the blue line represents the 50th percentile, or the "median" player. The big drop in response times for the median player here is good. But you can see that even as of early 2020, champ select response times for the median player are hovering around 300ms. That's not horrible, but it's still a perceptible delay.

The 70th percentile players (green line) have also experienced big improvements recently, but champ select response times for them are hovering around 450ms. That's nearly a half a second delay, which is frankly much slower than what we'd want for anyone with a halfway decent machine.

Lastly, take a look at the 90th percentile (orange line) in all its terrible glory. By definition, these players are going to be experiencing a slower response time than most. But 800ms is too high, and that's where these players are sitting even after the Chromium update.

So! Let's talk about what we're going to do next.

WHAT WE'RE GOING TO PRIORITIZE NEXT
There are two specific, long-term targets for client performance that we're prioritizing:

We want to lower bootstrap time to about 15 seconds, even for 90th percentile players. That's between three and four times faster, compared to where it's at now.
We want to get champ select lock-in response times down to around 100ms for 90th percentile players. That's about eight times faster than today.
We know what you're thinking. What about the bugs? What about crashes and memory leaks?

Why prioritize these two things first? The reason is that, in the process of addressing bootstrap time and champ select lock-in time, we're going to be cleaning up and reworking certain fundamental aspects of the client's architecture. We believe that we'll be able to opportunistically address bugs, memory leaks, and crashes while pursuing these targets.

Issues like the "black screen" bug in champ select and rune pages not saving properly are just examples of things we intend to address as part of this process. But we want to be very transparent about the fact that this will take time. We currently have a rough six month plan that we believe will earn us meaningful progress toward these goals. But reaching our long-term targets will likely take longer.

These are targets, and it's possible we may fall short. We're sharing our targets with you because we know that in order to build back up trust in the client, we have to be more transparent than ever.


So, you're asking, how exactly are we going to do it?

HOW WE’RE GOING TO DO IT
So far we've identified two major architectural problems that contribute to slow bootstrap times. The first is our plugin architecture, which allows us to break the code for the client up into useful chunks. This architecture has gotten bloated as we've added more new functionality to the client. Second, we're misusing the Javascript framework (called Ember) that drives our UI.

Right now, the client uses far too many plugins and Ember apps. In fact, during the client's bootstrap process, we load in 41 separate plugins and 16 apps. Each of these takes anywhere from 100ms to 800ms each to start up. That's not great.

Our plan is to consolidate all those plugins and apps down into way fewer (and theoretically more efficient) plugins and apps. We're going to focus on the ones that start up during bootstrap first because we believe that'll get us the biggest gains throughout the client.

PHASE 1: BOOTSTRAP
Today it takes as long as 40 seconds for many of you to get through bootstrap. If you're one of these players, you know that the experience can be extremely slow and janky. It also means that when your client crashes, restarting it is that much more painful.

Lots of things throughout the client like notifications, the friends list, and the collection tab are affected by the plugins and apps that start up during bootstrap. So although our stated long-term goal is to get bootstrap time down to 15 seconds for the 90th percentile player, we think that in the process we'll also be addressing a bunch of bugs and inefficiencies that have an impact throughout the client.

After a few months of focusing on bootstrap, we'll assess how close we are to our goals, and then—probably near the end of spring—we'll move on to focus specifically on champ select.

PHASE 2: CHAMP SELECT
Champ select introduces many additional plugins and Ember apps. To put it bluntly, almost everything you do in champ select creates new apps. Trading champions generates two of them. So does changing your summoner spell.

The longer you play League in a single session, the more these apps pile up on top of each other, resulting in an increasingly laggy experience. This problem is compounded by the fact that most of the actions you take during champ select rely on communication with our servers, adding latency to every interaction.

The real, root problem in champ select is the way that our backend systems manage data. The current architecture of champ select allows us to pass a lot of powerful data through our systems. For example, if Riot decides to disable a champion in ranked, that champion will become disabled almost immediately for all players, including those who are currently in champ select when the disable is pushed live.

That's a very powerful system, but it requires a lot of horsepower to make it work. And the way the system is currently set up, there's a lot of unnecessary gates and bottlenecks in the process. So oftentimes, tons of data gets re-rendered when only one small input has been changed. This results in tons of damage to your client experience.

To fix this, we'll have to fundamentally change the way our champ select backend infrastructure works. We're going to rework how all data is passed through from server to client during champ select, which will take some time.

We have other ambitious, long-term goals that could make champ select even more efficient, like consolidating the whole client down to a single Ember app with no plugins at all. But for the short term, we want to implement enough changes to make the client run at our target rates, which we've shared above.

It's unclear how close to "good" we'll be when we finish this six-month process. But when we get to the end of it, we think we'll probably have made a ton of progress and discovered clear next steps.

NEXT STEPS
We're going to be checking in every couple of months with dev blogs sharing our progress, which will include hard numbers on performance and any tweaks to the project's timeline.

Wish us luck! And thanks for being League players. We'll chat more soon.
As we approach the end of Rise of the Elements, it’s time to reflect on what we promised for the set, how we did, and what new lessons we’ll take forward as we move into the next chapter for Teamfight Tactics. (In case you missed it, the next set will be TFT: Galaxies. Head here for an intro to the new set mechanic or here for a preview of a few of the upcoming origin traits.)

This is a long one, so here's the TLDR:
Looking Back…

TFT: Galaxies will have a LOT less random targeting for individual spells and will be more focused on specific things you can play around.
Balance was better in Rise of the Elements than in the launch set (more viable strategies, fewer drastic shifts), but there's still room for improvement.
Traits with strong disables (like Glacial) were less frustrating in Rise of the Elements, but we're still keeping an eye on them moving forward.
Soft counters are good, hard counters are not so good. Expect us to continue making more soft counters and even fewer hard counters.
Galaxies will feature one big mid-set expansion instead of the smaller one-off trait and champion additions.
Bugs are still bad, and while there were fewer of them in Rise of the Elements, we need to be even better.
Looking Forward…

We want spells to have higher impact, have greater clarity, and be more exciting visually.
Expect more viable carries across the cost spectrum.
Major traits (the big ones) should be a viable option, but should always be a little bit weaker than a truly creative combination of traits.
The Spatula is coming back to the carousel but in more controlled and… unique ways.
The new ranked season will start immediately with Galaxies, and the reset will work differently.
Looking Back
Let's talk about how we did applying our major learnings from the first set to RotE, including ways we hope to continue improving going forward.

We want to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces.
02_Random_Effects.jpg
We made progress here, but not as much as we could have. While it’s true that some of the more insane things like Phantom and Hextech were gone, there were still some effects that were random and fight-deciding. At the beginning of RotE, Mountain was often considered “Reverse Phantom,” though it didn’t end up being as impactful as was originally feared.

The bigger issue was our spell targetting.

Having so many champions with randomly-targeting spells led to a lot of extreme variance in fights. Taliyah and Azir were especially rough because they started with very high mana pools, which led to fights being decided by where their first cast went. Some random spells worked out quite well (Malphite and Lux) and added a healthy amount of fight variance. AoE Spells with variance make positioning a rich decision-making challenge, while single target CC spells that start early end up feeling like dice rolls.

For the next set, you’ll see a LOT less random targeting on spells and more focused on specific things you can play around. For example, one new spell is always aimed at the enemy with the most attack speed. This will allow you to use your game knowledge to outplay opponents more often.

Hold us to a higher standard for balancing the game so that a wider variety of comps can win in a given patch.
03_Balance.jpg
This is another one where we made significant progress compared to the launch set but didn’t nail it. The balance of Rise of the Elements was overall much better than the launch set, with way less outliers. But it also had its share of misses. Singed at launch, Brand in 9.23, Amumu in 9.24, “blender” Nocturne and Azir, and Yorick & Zed all jump out as clear balance issues that were a bit dominant in their given patch.

That being said, two things greatly helped balance in RotE. One is that the set’s design allowed counter options to come up in a lot of cases, so even if something was dominant, there were traits like Mystic and Cloud that could still give you a leg up. The other was that we were quicker to adapt when things became dominant. Strategic B-patches to target big outliers were helpful in bringing things to a more balanced state quicker. We also took a lighter-touch approach to balance, which led to less dramatic meta shifts, so people weren’t as thrown off patch to patch.

So while we made progress, we can still get better with balance. Continue to hold us responsible in making more comps viable patch to patch.

We’re aiming for less frustrating and fewer disables overall.
04_Disables.jpg
This is one we pretty clearly met. Compared to the launch set, there were just FAR fewer disables. The only really frustrating one was probably Olaf being Glacial Berserker. Someone with a 1.5 attack speed (or more) who AoE cleaves and freezes multiple champs was probably a bit over the line. Even when he was balanced or even sometimes underpowered, it just FELT frustrating to have your whole team frozen. Disables are healthy for keeping the pace of the game in check and creating tension in the battles, but when they get overwhelming (such as Launch 6 Glacial) that balance goes away.

Moving forward we will still have disables, as they are a key part of TFT champ design, but we’ll be keeping an eye on them and providing strategic and tactical ways to play around them.

Rise of the Elements will have more traits in the “soft counter” space.
05_Counters.jpg
This was a success, but also taught us a lot. Gone from the launch set were things like Dragon (100% magic damage reduction), and in its place were things like Mystic and Cloud. These traits allowed you to adapt and make smart decisions based on your opponents, but weren’t foolproof win conditions against certain comps. This was successful.

But we learned that even better-designed traits like Mystic still leave people feeling like they were hard countered. In addition, there were still a few traits that had that “hard counter” feel. (4 Desert vs 6 Warden being the biggest example). With this in mind, expect us to continue using soft counter traits even more while avoiding hard counters altogether.

Rise of the Elements will ship less total content patches, but each one will be larger.
06_Content_Drops.jpg
While it’s true that we didn’t ship any content patches with only one champ like we did in the launch set, we’re still not happy with the way our content patches are coming out.

There were basically two major patches in Rise of the Elements that added content:

9.24: Added Lucian, Senna, Amumu, Soulbound, and UI improvements.
10.1: Added Leona, Karma, Lunar, and Item Reworks.
Other than that, patches were typically balance changes and small systemic adjustments (such as removing Spatula from the carousel). We feel like having two content patches that aren’t that big isn’t the best we can do, so for Galaxies we’re going to take a different approach. We’re going to launch one mid-set expansion, focusing our efforts on one specific cool moment to come back and see all the new stuff.

B-Patches will be extremely small and only for nerfing strong outliers.
07_B_Patch.jpg
We did this one really well. 9.22 and 9.23 didn’t have B-patches. 9.24 had a large one due to the holiday, but otherwise would've been fine. 10.1 had a small B patch that did exactly as we described (only nerfed 3 outliers), and 10.2 didn’t have a B-patch.


Our goal is to keep changes at a smaller and healthier amount than what we did in the launch set, and we seemed to hit that with RotE. The next step is to try to lessen the number of actual balance changes needed each patch so that things aren’t shifting around as much. That said, the B-Patch rules will continue into the next set, with us only using them to nerf outliers in extreme cases.

Rise of the Elements will have less bugs and issues.
08_Bugs.jpg
We feel like we hit this in the sense that there were way less bugs this time around. Ranked was never taken down for example, compared to the launch set where we had to bring ranked down a few times at the start of patches. That being said, we still have a ways to go in this area as there were quite a few bugs that persisted for too long.

Zyra plants getting targeted by spells, Kindred’s spell not being able to crit with Jeweled Gauntlet, Quicksilver blocking the damage on spells with CC in them… These are just a few of the things we let slip through for too many patches. Each individual bug is not massively impacting, but the combination of them all leave TFT still feeling a bit incomplete. We’re going to continue to improve.

Looking Forward
Now let's look at some of the new things we learned from releasing Rise of the Elements, including how some different approaches paid off and others didn’t.

Spell Impact and Excitement
09_Spell_Impact_and_Excitement.jpg
One thing that felt like a bit of a downgrade from the launch set was that many of our spells were less exciting and impactful. The best example to illustrate this is Sejuani compared to Malphite. Both serve a very similar purpose (frontline tanks with a big AoE CC move), but Sejuani’s spell had much better anticipation as it was cast and a much clearer impact… and that’s just one example.

In the launch set, champions like Karthus, Cho’Gath, Kennen, Garen, Blitzcrank, Lissandra, and many more had very high impact spells that were exciting when they were cast. Compare that to Syndra, Master Yi, Nautilus, Azir, and others that did similar things but in a way that was harder to appreciate and get excited by. This led to the game being much less exciting to spectate.

With the next set, expect to see the return of many high-impact and exciting spells and a more exciting viewer experience.

Combat Clarity
10_Combat_Clarity.jpg
A similar topic but it’s worth its own section. There were quite a few changes and champions that ended up making combat a lot harder to follow. Summoners were the biggest culprit here, as filling the board with Zyra plants and their projectiles, Malzahar minions, hard-to-see Azir soldiers (and more) led to a very busy board that often became almost impossible to track.

In addition, we had quite a few invisible spells and effects that were hard to keep up with. The Berserker cleave was just one kind of “invisible AoE damage” that you had to trust was happening, but it was hard to track and be excited abo

ut. There were also Syndra orbs and Taliyah spells with no travel time, Yasuo and Kha'Zix moving around the map quickly, tiny Sivir boomerangs, and more. Expect to see a push for more visible and appreciable spells in the next set.

Champion Balance and Design… Again
11_Champion_Design.jpg
There’s a lot to go into here as this could be its own article. Let’s see if we can get through some of the key points.

The balance of spell power and stats relative to Star Level is in a much better spot: We made some big plays in RotE regarding this: We removed stats from 3-stars, we put MASSIVE amounts of spell power into four and five cost 3-stars, and we introduced item star scaling. This accomplished things we felt improved the game, such as opening more possible win conditions, increasing satisfaction when upgrades were achieved, and preventing the game from feeling too solved. But we still have room to improve. Currently it feels like 1-star units are too weak to include in armies after the early stages, so we’ll be continuing these kinds of adjustments in TFT: Galaxies.

One and two cost champs were a bust this set: With a few exceptions (3-star Kog and Vayne come to mind) you couldn’t really consider viable late game options with one and two cost champions. They merely existed to act as trait bodies instead of having their own win conditions and fantasies. Compare that to the launch set which had Lucian, Lissandra, Zed, and more. We need to get more one and two cost champs to be playable in the end game, so expect to see a big push to make that happen.

Creative but balanceable spell design is tough: Is something like Rise of the Elements Zed good for the game? He’s a super exciting five-cost champion who made some awesome moments (All-stars Zed vs Sivir is still an amazing highlight), but he was also very feast or famine. Zed was hard to use and often underpowered UNLESS you got the right items, in which case he became an unstoppable force. GA/Redemption/Dragon’s Claw Zed in particular was a very powerful and unintuitive build. Despite all this, we think it’s important to keep pushing the envelope with creative spells that push the genre and game into new possibilities. So expect to see more of these kinds of unique spells, with a big focus on how to do so while also keeping them healthy for the game.

And that’s just scratching the surface. There’s more we could talk about, but for now expect to see improved champ and spell design in the next set, with more satisfying carries across the cost spectrum.

Major Vs Minor Traits
12_Major_Minor_Traits.jpg
For context here, a major trait is one that allows you to stack a lot of the same thing (6 Inferno, 6 Light, 6 Berserker, etc.) and minor trait is either smaller traits (like Mountain) or when you don’t go deep on a major trait (a 3 Mage, 3 Inferno, 3 Summoner comp, for example).

At the start of Rise of the Elements, none of the major trait comps were powerful enough to play at the end game (except maybe Light). Using Mage as an example, it was better to take the powerful mages with powerful traits that’d buff the primary carry (Brand, Vlad, and Syndra to get Ocean and Mage) and ignore the others so you could maximize your trait connections. This was really fun for our more clever and connected players, but also made chasing things like 9 Inferno unsatisfying. So over the course of the set, we made corrections to things like Inferno, Berserker, and Mage to make them more viable.

Unfortunately we swung too hard in the other direction. By the end of the set, it was mostly about the 6-piece trait options, and things like 3 Berserker or 3 Mage weren’t really seen. Our goal is for major-trait-focused comps to be a totally viable option, but in an optimal set up they should be about 95% of the power of a more creative comp using many Minor traits, as those are more difficult to put together. Expect us to be balancing and designing the traits next set to try to meet this goal and give more creative branching options.

The Spatula
13_Golden_Spatula.jpg
With both the launch set and Rise of the Elements, we saw metas that were dominated by getting a key Spatula and using that to 1) make a champ that isn’t normally a trait become that trait, and 2) accelerate to a more difficult-to-get comps. Void-Assassin Kassadin from the launch set and “blender” Nocturne and Azir from RotE were the most notorious. As players learned how to optimize their economy and player damage to maximize the chances of getting these comps, it became clear that this wasn’t really what we intended when we designed the Spatula items.

The Spatula was designed to be a very rare item that opened up new options if you were lucky enough to get one. But frankly it was showing up in the carousel way too often, especially early on. So in 10.3 we did a test to see what happened if we took Spatula off the carousel. The results have been positive for the most part, but we think the best solution requires more finesse. We want to maintain that the Spatula isn’t something you can count on, but rather something you have to adapt to when it shows up.

In the next set, expect to see Spatula back on the carousel, but in a much more controlled and… unique ways. We look forward to seeing some of your reactions to what is possible.

Other Thoughts
14_Ranked_TFT.jpg
Of course there’s more we can talk about, but this is already a very long article, so here’s a couple final quick points.

Ranked being off for the first patch and the ranked reset are both experiences we can improve on for TFT: Galaxies. Being stuck in Bronze while playing against Diamond or higher players made the climb way too difficult early, so expect to see changes there. And ranked will be available right away.

Finally, gold inflation is a bit out of hand. Having enough gold to buy all your first shops takes all the interesting decision making out of the game, and having 50 gold by Krugs with little effort allowed you to snowball the game and increase the pace of the match to speeds faster than we’d like. We’ll be making some big swings at gold inflation in the next set.

The End
And with that, Rise of the Elements is coming to an end. On behalf of the whole TFT development team, thank you for playing and enjoying the game. As we continue to do our best to make TFT even more fun, please keep giving us feedback on what you want to see. Your passion for the game inspires us to keep moving forward. Good luck in your ranked climb, and we’ll see you for the next set: Galaxies.
Hey everyone! Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain here, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay.

Back in January, we started a conversation around improving ranked for 2020. Today we’d like to run through our big goals, how we’re planning to meet those goals, and share where we’re going with our next steps.

GOALS
Over the past year we’ve been collecting your feedback to help us build clear goals for a more competitive, transparent and rewarding ranked system in League of Legends.

Specifically, here are the areas you called out:

Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.
Improve transparency around ranked and matchmaking systems.
Improve progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems.
Make rewards more recognizable and relevant for time spent in League.
Players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.
ALMOST HERE: MATCHMAKING
We're starting with the first goal, which covers matchmaking. We’ve all been in games where we feel like we’re at a disadvantage from the start. We want to take a look under the hood of our matchmaking system and make sure that the current system is balancing player matches out the gate to the best of its ability.

Our first two ranked matchmaking improvements are in testing and nearly ready for launch. Expect the following features within the next few patches:

Autofill Balance - As announced in Season Start, these updates aim to balance the number of autofilled players on each team.
Duo Balance - This update aims to balance the number of premades on each team.
Given the sensitivity of matchmaking quality and the impact it has on players, we’ll be constantly tuning these features behind the scenes as necessary. Once they've been live for a while, we'll circle back and let you know how they performed—potentially alongside a status update on...

IN DEVELOPMENT: NEW AND AUTOFILLED PLAYER ADJUSTMENTS
There are a couple standout areas where our matchmaking service can be improved to more accurately assess skill level. We've begun exploring system improvements to better handle them.

New Account Seeding - For players entering ranked for the first time, we think we can better identify true skill level by looking more holistically at their playstyle. 
Position Informed Autofill - Though our current system does not specifically measure you against all potential positions, we do understand that position proficiency has a significant impact on the game. We’re balancing the number of autofills on each team, but we would also like to balance the positions autofilled if we can. We think there are small adjustments that we can make without putting risk on areas of the system that are already working well.
THE SECOND HALF OF 2020 AND PRESEASON
Past the four specific improvements above, we’re also deeply investigating opportunities to fix some more complex pain points. The products of those investigations will be coming later in the year (anything big will wait for preseason), but expect updates as we go. Here's where we’re working:

Game Ruining Behavior - We’re attempting to develop better ways of dealing with disruptive behavior. Examples include better detection and punishment for behaviors like intentionally feeding, AFKing, win trading, and griefing, in addition to giving more frequent feedback when we’ve taken action on unsportsmanlike behavior you reported.
Rank and Matchmaking Rating (MMR) Transparency - The hidden relation between player’s visible ranks and matchmaking rating has been causing confusion and frustration ever since the tier system launched years ago. We’d like to provide more clarity to players around their rank and updates to where we can fix the disconnect in meaningful ways.
Promotion Series - We know that too many promos have become a source of frustration. We're seriously examining the current promotion system and will be making changes to shift the role it plays in our competitive ecosystem.
Flex Queue and Organization - Hovering somewhere between a social competitive queue for groups and a quasi-competitive queue for those looking to try out some new things, it's unclear exactly what Flex is supposed to be best at. We’re taking an immediate look at loosening up restrictions for group formation to make it easier to play with your friends, and how we can tie Flex to the greater competitive ecosystem.
WHAT SHOULD YOU EXPECT NEXT?
The Competitive Gameplay team is dedicated to making League the most rewarding and competitive experience out there and we’ve got a lot of work ahead of us. As we do, please keep the feedback and criticisms coming. Many of the changes we're working on are frankly overdue, and we want to make up for lost time by being as attentive and responsive as possible as our updates roll out through the year.

You’ll be hearing from us again in a few weeks once we've got results to report for autofill and premade balance. See you on the Rift!
Last week we introduced Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies and its new mechanic. This week we'll talk about a few of the teams that will be inhabiting these galaxies, how they work, and where they fit within the set. Hopefully this gets your galaxy brains going, because ultimately it will be up to you to chart your own course, discover new compositions, and achieve victory.

What We Learned From Rise of the Elements
In Rise of the Elements, we got a lot more information on what makes a satisfying composition. Some things went well, for example: the ability to pivot to things like Mystic to counter specific enemies, and the ability to combine traits in interesting ways to make a powerful carry like Kindred with Inferno and Shadow. Other things didn't go so well: A few comps felt like you had to go the full 6 or they weren’t worth pursuing (Berserker), or the opposite where 6 was never worth pursuing (Mage in the first half of the set). We also need to make sure that the compositions have satisfying carries with really satisfying spells.

We’re taking these learning forward moving into Galaxies. Let’s start by introducing a handful of the champions and traits you’ll be using and show some example compositions you can make.

Star Guardians
First, one of our more straight-forward compositions: Star Guardian. It uses all 6 of the Star Guardians as a base, and then can expand into a few different compositions. The trait gives mana to all the Star Guardians each time one casts a spell, so these will be very caster-heavy comps.

StarGuardian_v3.png
Final Composition Example: 6 Star Guardian, 4 Sorcerer

Trait Effect: Whenever a Star Guardian casts their spell, distribute (3) 20 mana (6) 30 mana among all the other Star Guardians.
Poppy - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Vanguard): Tanky Frontliner
Zoe - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged CC
Ahri - Tier 2 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Neeko - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Protector): AOE CC
Syndra - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Soraka - Tier 4 (Star Guardian/Mystic): Team Healing
Sorcerer: All allies gain (2) +15% (4) +40% (6) +120% increased Spell Power
Annie - Tier 2 (Mech Pilot/Sorcerer): Frontline Spell Damage
How it works: Arguably the most stable version of the Star Guardian comp, it can be achieved at Level 7 and gives your whole team 40% spell power to boost their constant spell spam. Poppy and Annie provide a nice front line, Neeko CCs, while Ahri and Syndra do massive amounts of damage.

Why it works: We believe it's important that every set has a few compositions that are pretty easy to understand and put together. Less experienced players can buy all the Star Guardians and still do very well. You’re going to be in a pretty good spot if you get them all, which is a core skill to understand.

That being said, there’s more depth to the Star Guardian Origin. You can go Protector if you need more front line, you can pivot into Mystics if there’s too much spell damage, and you can even get more creative since Tear of the Goddess and Spatula merge to make a new item that can turn any champion into a Star Guardian! Our favorite so far has been Star Guardian Vel’Koz.

Cybernetic
For the next example, let’s look at new origin that has a pretty straight-forward bonus, but a really unique requirement to activate it: Cybernetic. This origin is flexible—you can splash at 3 or try to go deep for all 6.

Blademaster_v3.png
Final Composition Example: 6 Blademaster, 3 Cybernetic

Trait Effect: Cybernetic champions with an item equipped gain (3) 300 health & 30 attack damage (6) 800 health & 80 attack damage.
Leona - Tier 1 (Cybernetic/Vanguard): Tanky frontliner
Fiora - Tier 1 (Cybernetic/Blademaster): Fragile Melee DPS
Irelia - Tier 4 (Cybernetic/Mana-Reaver/Blademaster): Melee DPS
Blademaster: Blademasters have a (3) 25% (6) 50% chance on hit to attack two extra times.
Xayah - Tier 1 (Celestial/Blademaster): Ranged DPS
Shen - Tier 2 (Chrono/Blademaster): Tanky frontliner
Yasuo - Tier 2 (Rebel/Blademaster): Melee DPS
Kayle - Tier 4 (Valkyrie/Blademaster): Ranged DPS
How it works: A comp that’s all about empowering Irelia to be a massive carry, Cybernetic gives health and attack damage if the champ has at least one item on them. You can put items on Leona and Fiora to power them up and keep them useful all game, and then in the late game, load up Irelia to be your major item carrier. Backed up by 6 Blademaster (yes it's back with some slight adjustments), she’ll be a monster.

Why it works: Cybernetic opens up a new option that we haven't seen before, in that you need to spread out your items to maximize the benefit. The trait itself is VERY strong if you’re willing to put one item on each champion, so it becomes a fun puzzle to figure out which items get you the best return. Cybernetic is also a much more flexible origin, as it has a LOT of options on how to branch out. We expect it to be one of the more popular three-piece Origins.

Mech-Pilot
Lastly, we want to share the one I think most of us are the most excited about. When we first pitched the Galaxies theme, we all jumped at the chance to do this, so let me be the first to introduce you to the Mech-Pilot Origin.

MechPilot_v3.png
Final Composition: 3 Mech-Pilot, 4 Sorcerer, 3 Star Guardian, 2 Demolitionist

Mech-Pilot: (3) At the start of combat, three Mech-Pilot champs are merged into a Super Mech until it dies.
Annie - Tier 2 (Mech Pilot/Sorcerer): Frontline Spell Damage
Rumble - Tier 3 (Mech Pilot/Demolitionist): Frontline Spell Damage
Fizz - Tier 4 (Mech Pilot/Infiltrator): Backline CC & Damage
Demolitionist: (2) Demolitionist’s spells stun for 2.5 seconds.
Ziggs - Tier 1 (Rebel/Demolitionist): Ranged Spell Damage
Sorcerer: All allies gain (2) +15% (4) +40% (6) +120% increased Spell Power
Zoe - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged CC spell
Ahri - Tier 2 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Syndra - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
How it works: With this comp, Annie, Rumble, and Fizz combine together into a Super-Mech! This big tanky mech shares traits and stats from the pilots, so the higher star level they are, the stronger your mech. The super mech can also use up to three items, which makes for an interesting puzzle on how you itemize it. Then by including 4 sorcerers, your mech gains +40% spell power, and when your mech casts his giant AOE spell, it stuns everyone it hits for 2.5 seconds!

SuperMecha_v3.png
Why it works: From a thematic standpoint, we’re really excited to see a giant mech and the destruction it can cause. From a gameplay standpoint… we’re REALLY excited to be able to see a giant mech and the destruction it can cause! It’ll also be fun to see which items and traits synergize best with the mech. It’s spell is REALLY big, but it’s also susceptible to CC. All of the different possibilities should lead to some really cool highlights!

Welp, That's All For Now!
Later this week we’ll be doing a deep-dive into what we learned from Rise of the Elements (like we did after Set 1), and then during the first week of March, we'll reveal the rest of Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies.
When we announced Eternals last year, we were really excited to bring champion-specific stat-trackers to League of Legends. Eternals introduced more reasons to play your favorite champs, new ways to flex on your foes, and a novel form of progression that made the game more fun. However, it was clear from your feedback after our PBE reveal that we missed the mark in a few key areas.

As a result, we made the call to delay our launch while we took a step back and identified three ways to make Eternals a better experience:

Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
Before we get into specifics on how we’re addressing these goals, let’s cover the basics: What are Eternals? And why are we excited about them?

What Are Eternals?
In a nutshell, Eternals are champion-specific stat-trackers that capture, celebrate, and flex your moments of glory in and out of game.

Check out this video for the TL;DR:


At launch, there will be two Eternals series available: a Starter Series (more on this later) and Series 1. Each series contains a set of three Eternals per champion, and we’ll release more over time as we see what stats players enjoy tracking.

02_Eternals_Progression_Lee_Sin_v2.jpg

Stats begin tracking as soon as you unlock them. When you pass a milestone, like 50 Bicycle Kicks on Lee Sin, a callout pops up in game that all players can see to celebrate the moment.

Note: The in-game callout is smaller than what’s represented here!


Eternals are also visible to other players alongside Champion Mastery in your Player Showcase. The Player Showcase is visible in two places: on the back of your champion card in the loading screen and on your opponent’s death screen after you kill them or assist in their death. The first set of Eternals you unlock for each champion are featured automatically, but you can customize which Eternals you want to feature. If you don’t have any Eternals, no problem, we’ll still show off your Champion Mastery just like on the loading screen.

Here’s how your featured Eternals look on the back of your champion card:

04_Eternals_Loading_Screen_Champion_Card_v2.jpg

And finally, here’s what your enemy will see when you kill or assist in killing them:


A set can contain two types of Eternals, Common and Unique:

Common Eternals track stats that aren’t specific to any one champion.
For example, Takedowns and Epic Monsters Killed.
Unique Eternals track unique stats that are specific to a champion.
For example, “Stun Sniper” for Ashe tracks how many times you’ve landed an ultra long-range ultimate.
If you're curious, you can see the full list of Unique Eternals for all champions here.

The price of each set is determined by how many Common or Unique Eternals it has. Common Eternals add 75 RP each, while Unique Eternals add 200 RP each.

For example, Series 1 contains sets with 3 Uniques and will cost 600 RP per champ, while a hypothetical future set with 2 Commons and 1 Unique would cost 350 RP.

06_Common_vs_Unique_Eternals_v2.jpg

Common vs. Unique Eternals


Eternals also have exclusive unlockable perks you can earn by hitting milestones within a series. Hit 5 milestones on a single Eternal, and you’ll start tracking your Personal Best for that stat. Beat your Personal Best in a match, and you’ll get a special milestone callout to show it off to other players in game!

Additionally, if you hit 15 milestones across any of the Eternals in a set, you’ll upgrade your Mastery Emote with an exclusive fiery effect. You can upgrade your Mastery Emote multiple times, so the more sets you complete, the cooler your mastery emote will look for that champion.


Now that we’ve explained how Eternals work, let’s talk about how your feedback helped make Eternals better.

What Did We Change (and Why)?
Based on your PBE feedback, we identified three ways to make Eternals a better experience:

Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
Goal 1: Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Many of you told us our first series of Eternals wasn’t exciting enough and didn’t let you show off your skill in the ways you wanted. To address this, we've added two more Unique Eternals per champion to their launch sets, with an emphasis on capturing the high moments unique to each champion. Here’s an example of how one champion’s set evolved to be more skill expressive based on this feedback:

Vladimir’s Original Series 1 Set:

Multiple (2+) enemy champions hit by Hemoplague (R)
Duration of enemy champions slowed by abilities, items, and runes
Enemy champions killed
Vladimir’s New Series 1 Set:

Multiple (2+) enemy champions hit by Hemoplague (R)
Transfusions (Q) empowered by Crimson Rush (QP) used on enemy champions
Skillshot missiles dodged with Sanguine Pool (W)

We also took some time during development to post our designs for all 435 of the new unique Eternals to get players’ feedback on where we were headed. It was really fun to work directly with you on designs, and it ultimately resulted in a bunch of modifications to the launch series. Here are a few more examples of the changes we made based directly on your feedback:

Anivia’s “Kills to enemies with Glacial Storm (R)” was removed and replaced with “Number of champions knocked aside by Crystallize (W)”
Poppy’s “Number of bucklers thrown with Iron Ambassador (P)” was changed to “Amount of damage blocked by Iron Ambassador’s (P) shield”
Lulu’s “Number of champions knocked up by Wild Growth (R)” was changed to “Number of times 2+ enemy champions have been knocked up by Wild Growth (R)”
There were so many great ideas that you shared with us during our discussions that we couldn’t fit into our initial release, so we’re really looking forward to making them for future series. In the meantime, let us know what other top moments about playing your favorite champion you’d want to track and flex with Eternals. They could make their way into the next series!

Goal 2: Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
This one comes in two parts: what we’re doing immediately at launch and what we’re doing in the months following release. Let’s talk about what we’re doing at launch first.

We think League will be a lot more fun for everyone if more players have access to Eternals, so we’ve created a Starter Series for every champion in the game.

Sets in the Starter Series are unlocked per champion, and are permanently available for 2500 Blue Essence or 225 RP. The Starter Series features the following Common Eternals:

Takedowns (kills + assists)
Structures Destroyed (turrets and inhibitors)
Epic Monsters Killed (Baron, dragons, and Rift Heralds)
We specifically chose these stats because they encourage teamplay and are applicable to all champions in the game. You won’t need to last hit a turret or dragon to get credit for these, so long as you participate in taking the objective or kill, your stats will go up.


Sets in the Starter Series behave just like any other set: hitting 15 milestones across any of the Eternals in a Starter Series set will upgrade your Mastery Emote. You can also unlock Personal Best for all of these stats by hitting milestone 5 on each of them.

In addition to the Starter Series, we’ll also be releasing Eternal Capsules as an additional free reward in Ranked Splits.

Eternal Capsules contain Orange Essence and two random Set Shards, which behave similarly to Skin Shards. A Set Shard will unlock an Eternals set for a specific champion when upgraded with Orange Essence. You’ll also be able to disenchant unwanted Set Shards for Orange Essence if you so choose.

With these updates, players will have multiple ways to unlock Eternals without spending RP. We’ll have more to share on Eternal Capsules and Set Shards after launch.

Goal 3: Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
When we announced Eternals, we got lots of feedback saying that players with large champion pools didn’t have a great way to get Eternals for their entire roster without breaking the bank. Originally, we anticipated players would only unlock Eternals for one or two champs, but we realized we could do much better for players who want Eternals on every champion (or a whole lot of ‘em).

So at launch, you can grab a Series Pass that instantly unlocks all the Eternals in a Series for every champion at a massive discount.

You’ll have two options to unlock Eternals:

Unlock sets one champion at a time if you only care about your mains. This is the best option if you only want Eternals on a couple champions.
For players who want it all, you can pick up a Series Pass that instantly unlocks all Eternals in a particular Series for all champions, forever.
That means that if you buy the Series 1 Pass, you’ll get all Series 1 Eternals for every champ that currently exists and all new champs we release in the future.

The Series 1 Pass will be priced at 5850 RP, which is more than a 90% discount compared to buying individually. The Series Pass is also available for the Starter Series, so if you want to get the Starter Series for every champ in the game using Blue Essence in a single purchase, you can do that with an even deeper discount. The Starter Series Pass will be available for 14750 Blue Essence or 1350 RP.

We’re really excited about all of these changes to Eternals, and can’t wait to see how high you push all of your stats in the years to come. Thank you so much for all of the feedback on Eternals thus far, and be sure to let us know if you have any more ideas on how we can continue to improve. Also, hit up our FAQ if you still have questions about how certain parts of Eternals work or if you want to know more about the lore behind them.

See you on the Rift!
Next month we'll be saying a fond farewell to Teamfight Tactics: Rise of the Elements and giving a warm welcome to Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies. The new set places you in the midst of a League universe-spanning intergalactic war bringing new champions, traits, skins, boards, Little Legends, and a new set-wide mechanic. We'll be sharing more about the upcoming stuff over the next few weeks. Today, we're starting with the new set mechanic for TFT: Galaxies.

But First, Let's Talk About Elemental Hexes
Before we get there though, let's talk about the Elemental Hex system. We added a set mechanic to Rise of the Elements because we wanted to increase replayability, add variance to every game, and force players to continuously adapt the way they played. We hoped that dealing with a different core element every game meant that the same composition wasn’t always going to be the best option. Additionally, with hexes being in different spots each game, it wouldn’t always be clear the best way to utilize them.

Overall we're happy with how the Elemental Hex system turned out, especially with the way Qiyana integrates with the system and the way it allows for new builds across games. Mountain games have stronger front lines and the earlier appearance of the Mountain trait. Ocean games allow for quicker spell casts and Shojin states. Cloud games give spell casters a slight edge, and Inferno games are more explosive than normal. Every game feels a little bit different, which is what we wanted.

Rise_of_the_Elements.jpg
That being said, it's not perfect and we’re definitely taking a few learnings going forward. The first one is clarity issues. The hexes use the item system, and while we intended for that to be an interesting strategic trade-off, it's also very unclear (especially for new players) what benefits your champions are getting. We were also a bit conservative with the hexes’ power level. They're such a light touch to the game that it’s often ideal to simply ignore the mechanic for better positioning. Ideally, game mechanics with that level of visibility and mind share require you to interact with them in clever ways; Elemental Hexes aren't quite hitting that bar right now.

Elemental Hexes will be leaving TFT with Rise of the Elements, and we'll be moving forward with a new set mechanic for Galaxies.

Galaxies Within Galaxies
We're calling the set mechanic for Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies... "Galaxies." Yes, we're very creative. Here’s how it works: In addition to games with normal rulesets, some games of TFT will take you to a different galaxy where the rules are just a bit different.

For example, one Galaxy you might travel to is the Neekoverse Galaxy, where everyone starts with two Neeko’s Help items ready to go. With everyone having this advantage, it becomes about making strategic decisions around when and how to use those Neekos. Do you use them early on a powerful three-cost or four-cost to start win streaking? Do you chase a powerful 3-star that might normally be too hard to achieve? Or do you hold out for that late game 2-star five-cost champ?

Star_Guardian_Placeholder_Image.jpg

Another Galaxy you might travel to is the "4-cost-carousel" Galaxy (the name is a work in progress), where the first carousel is entirely four-cost champions. This brings a new set of questions: Should you build around that champion? Or are you going to sell it for an early gold spike? A four-cost with the right component is strong from the start, but four additional gold could enable multiple 2-star champions right out of the gate.

You won’t know which Galaxy you’re playing in until the game starts, so your ability to adapt is going to be put to the test. And there's one more thing: New Galaxies will open up gradually as the set goes on. So at launch you’re very likely to have a normal game as only one or two Galaxies will be active, but by the end of the set, there may be as many as 10 different Galaxies (…and some may go away as well).

The universe is vast and there’s a lot to explore out there!

Why Though?
We had a few goals for Galaxies. First, we wanted something that increased variance and required more adaptability. TFT is at its best when you can’t just look up a guide and know the best way to play, but rather have to adapt to what’s going on in game. So coming up with a set mechanic that made that happen was important.

Second, we wanted as clear of a set mechanic as possible. As mentioned, Elemental Hexes were a pretty simple mechanic, but with some confusion around its rules. For Galaxies we wanted something that would be clear right off the bat, so that even if it was your first TFT game, you’d be able to understand what was going on.

Finally, we wanted something expandable. Elemental Hexes are great, but we were disappointed that we weren’t able to add additional hexes over the course of the set. Galaxies give us the opportunity to add new ones pretty frequently since they aren’t so ingrained into the set’s champions like Qiyana was. We’re excited to bring you some really unique Galaxies to explore over the next few months.

PROJECT_Placeholder_Image.jpg
How We'll Know If It's Working
As you load up into each game, you should be excited about the possibility of going to a different Galaxy, and when you get there, it should change how you approach the game in a unique and fun way. If we’re seeing different games on different galaxies play out in unique ways, then this will be a success.

We hope you have fun exploring the Galaxies, and we can’t wait for you to try them all! Tune in next week for a look at a few of the traits that will show up in Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies.
Disclaimer: This post is kinda tech-heavy and concerns anti-cheat tooling that won’t be exclusive to League of Legends. Other games (like Project A) will be protected by the referenced upgrade before LoL is.

In a partnered study lasting approximately 8 years and backed by $20 million in federal funding, leading scientists managed to chronologically place the invention of cheating somewhere between 3.5 billion BCE and November 20th, 1985. While its precise origin remains indeterminate, one reality has become accepted as established fact: Cheaters gonna cheat.

Over the last two decades, the development of cheats and the technology to prevent them have escalated from the honorable fight for control of game client memory into methods that attempt to modify the underlying operating system—or even the hardware—of a cheater’s machine. These techniques can compromise an anti-cheat’s ability to retrieve good data, and that effect is compounded if that anti-cheat has to run in user-mode.

What is user-mode?
It describes a privilege level within an operating system, specifically the most restrictive tier software can run at. Your web browser, your legitimate copy of WinRAR, and your favorite games all run in user-mode. Within it, an application cannot directly “see outside” of itself, and instead, code must generally rely on OS’ native APIs to read or write memory not within its own process. Or to wrap that up in a semi-intelligible metaphor: We (in user-mode) have to ask the kitchen (Microsoft Windows) what’s been added to our beef goulash (League of Legends).





Kernel_Drivers_Image.png




If you’ve ever heard some stable genius hit you with a “lol my cheat is ring 0 undetected,” this is what they were referring to right before they were banned.



In the last few years, cheat developers have started to leverage vulnerabilities or corrupt Windows’ signing verification to run their applications (or portions of them) at the kernel level. The problem here arises from the fact that code executing in kernel-mode can hook the very system calls we would rely on to retrieve our data, modifying the results to appear legitimate in a way we might have difficulty detecting. We’ve even seen specialized hardware utilizing DMA1 to read and process system memory—a vector that, done perfectly, could be undetectable2 from user-mode.

Now, while most players might find the idea of a corrupted Windows installation objectionable, a disturbing number of cheaters have shown themselves to be downright enthusiastic about the opportunity to jump onto some guy’s botnet in exchange for the ability to orbwalk. So, an abundance of cheats currently run at a higher privilege level than our anti-cheat does. To put that in the terms of our immaculate kitchen analogy: When we ask the head chef if our goulash ingredients are actually farm-to-table, some random dude in a toque convinces restaurant management that he’s “got this,” and then replies to our request with a “sure my guy, dig in.”

1 DMA here refers to “Direct Memory Access,” a method by which a piece of hardware could, as you’ve probably suspected, directly access memory, windows API not required. Some of the more mature cheating communities have used it to rebroadcast memory to a separate computer for later processing and ESP.

2 We straight hired the guy that developed the technique to detect it.

Why are you telling me this?
Well historically, your favorite anti-cheat team has been forced to play this game from the user-level, effectively giving cheaters a much-needed, twelve-stroke handicap. We haven’t needed both arms yet, primarily because we have the advantage of steady paychecks and the lack of strict bedtimes at our immediate disposal. But as much as we might like the idea of an ever-escalating appsec war with teenagers, we’re now entering a multi-game universe where linear time and sleep deficits will make this particular strategy untenable.

This is why some of Riot’s future titles will be protected by a kernel driver.

I think I’m going to panic?
There are several reasons you should absolutely not do that.

Stress can lead to excess hair loss, and I don’t want your head to get cold.
This isn’t giving us any surveillance capability we didn’t already have. If we cared about grandma’s secret recipe for the perfect Christmas casserole, we’d find no issue in obtaining it strictly from user-mode and then selling it to The Food Network. The purpose of this upgrade is to monitor system state for integrity (so we can trust our data) and to make it harder for cheaters to tamper with our games (so you can’t blame aimbots for personal failure).
This isn’t even news. Several third party anti-cheat systems—like EasyAntiCheat, Battleye, and Xigncode3—are already utilizing a kernel driver to protect your favorite AAA games. We’re just installing our own sous-chef to the Windows kitchen, so that when we hit em with a “where’s the beef,” we know we’re getting an honest answer.
It will be significantly harder to create undetected cheats: protecting you from aimbots, protecting us from Reddit, and protecting cheaters from themselves.
We believe anti-cheat is one of the most important components of an online multiplayer game, and we want you to play in a world where you never have to doubt the abilities of your opponent. There is no cure for cheat fever, but we will continue to do anything it takes to bring you the best competitive experience possible.

Transmission complete, but I’ll be returning in approximately four megaseconds to tell you about bots in your ARAMs, a follow-up to our award-winning novella, “Removing Cheaters from League.
Compared to some of our recent champs, Sett’s a pretty straightforward champion to play—and so was his development process. “B-But Rito-sama, does this mean you don’t notice your half-breed bastard son as much as his edgier cousins like Kayn and Aphelios?” Nope, we love our chad vastaya a lot. And even though Sett snowballed into reality, he still required a ton of work.

Wipe that UwU from your face—here’s the story of League’s smokin’ hot new juggernaut.

Come on and Slam
“The last time we made a traditional juggernaut for top lane was Darius,” explains associate game designer Glenn “Riot Twin Enso” Anderson. “We talked about what we wanted to do for our next juggernaut and landed on an easy-to-learn kit with a broadly appealing character. Basically someone that a lot of players would like. And we just went from there.”

League didn’t have a champion who literally grabbed their opponents and threw them around like a ragdoll, and the team was excited to explore a grappler’s playstyle. Inspired by the idea of a flashy-move fighter who would literally 1v9 anyone, concept art lead Gem “Lonewingy” Lim started to draw.

Sett’s early designs focused on a four-armed silhouette
Sett’s early designs focused on a four-armed silhouette

Lonewingy created four early concepts for Sett. The first was a four-armed Targonian Aspect of Might. (All the better to grapple with, my dear.) The next was a Piltovan robot butler, which became a hit with the design team.

“He’s a proper butler robot guy,” laughs Lonewingy. “He’s this very preppy, dapper dude who can, you know, make a souffle and be gentle. But he’ll also punch you to death.”

The third scrapped design was a Darkin behemoth… or the chunky dinosaur, as the team lovingly nicknamed him.

And then there he was in all of his vastayan glory: Sett, the embodiment of a rough grappler. Mr. Kick-Your-Ass-And-Steal-Your-Girl. But there was one problem: The grappling part of his kit had some issues and needed to be reconsidered.

“There were some design issues with having a champion physically grab and move another champion elsewhere,” senior game designer Bryan “Riot Axes” explains. “It creates a lot of gameplay clarity problems, can be frustrating for players, and it’s a big tax on resources to animate all of those grappling abilities.”

In order to alleviate some of the issues with Sett’s grappling, Riot Axes refocused the kit on straight out brawling… with a twist.

“When Riot Axes transferred the champion’s design to me, he stressed Sett’s design hooks,” says Riot Twin Enso. “Sett has a unique 1-2, 1-2 auto attack cadence, and he makes players rethink standard teamfight positioning.”

Sett can’t beat the shit out of you without getting closer
Sett can’t beat the shit out of you without getting closer

Most teamfights are played front-to-back, with the exception of an assassin flanking to one-shot your carry. Juggernauts’ beefy builds and kits flourish in that style, and if you’re someone who enjoys a good ol’ front-to-back teamfight, Sett wants to know your location.

Sett laughs at standard teamfight positioning. He wants to absorb tons of damage so he can unleash his full power by grabbing that beefcake frontline and body slamming them into the squishies they’re supposed to protect. It’s where he’s best, and it’s the exact type of fight he wants.

But because Sett went from fully-fledged grappler to Punchy McPuncherboy, his four-armed silhouette no longer made as much sense.

Wolverine vs. Honey Badger, Who Would Win?
“Now that Sett no longer grappled and instead relied more on punching, I needed to rethink his character design,” explains Lonewingy. This meant it was back to the drawing board for League’s newest husbando.

The team decided to go with a more standard two-armed design (perfect for haymakers), but they soon realized there might be a new issue: Sett just looked like some random guy, and that wouldn’t do for Ionia’s very own one two punch man.

Mecha Kingdom Sett exploration
Mecha Kingdom Sett exploration

“Whenever we design a new champion we want them to have a unique silhouette or something that can carry over to skins so players know exactly who they’re looking at,” Lonewingy shares. “So we started exploring different types of fist weapons to give him something we could anchor to when we make skins.”

As a punchy boi, he needed something that’d feel intuitive to that style of combat, so they gave Sett a fist weapon. Which led the team to the obvious… wolverines and honey badgers.

“Vastaya are traditionally tied to animals. Xayah and Rakan are birds, Nami is a fish,” explains Lonewingy. “I wanted Sett’s brass knuckle to stylistically feel like his signature animal. I just didn’t know what animal that was yet, so I started to do some research.”

“According to the many ‘wolverine vs honey badger: who would win’ YouTube videos I watched, wolverines have a slight advantage when attacking,” laughs Longwingy.


“Honey badgers definitely have more defensive stats. We ended up going with the wolverine because Sett is a fighter and not a protector. But it was really close between the two!”

Life Ain’t Easy for a Champ Named Sett
“Riot Axes and Riot Twin Enso had created this champion who throws everything into every one of his punches, and Lonewingy drew this badass-looking guy, so I needed to start thinking about his story,” says senior writer John “JohnODyin” O’Bryan. “Because Sett had these big, visceral fighting moves and a tough look, it didn’t make sense for him to be a refined, dainty, upper cruster.”

05_Sett_studies
Ryan “Reav3” Mireles, Lead Producer of Champions Team, had a suggestion: What if Sett was a crime boss? With that idea, his story basically wrote itself. And Sett’s vastayan heritage gave the team the perfect chance to take a deeper look at Ionia, peeking directly into its seedy criminal underbelly.

“Ionia had been a world of exacts and extremes before Sett,” explains Lonewingy. “Zed’s evil, and Karma and Irelia are good. We didn’t have an Ionian champion who was just… grey.”

That led the team down the track of discovering what Ionia’s “grey” was.


“Pit fighting really appealed to us,” says JohnODyin. “It exemplifies how Noxian culture has influenced Ionia, and gave them an outlet for violence. Sett’s kinda the product of that.”

But when Sett’s father left to seek bigger and better fighting pits across Runeterra, Sett and his mother’s lives changed. They were cast out of their tribe and forced to live among the humans who were… less than welcoming of an outcast vastaya and her large half-breed son. It was this hatred that shaped his uncaring personality.

“Sett doesn’t give a f%$#,” laughs JohnODyin. “He cares about his mom and he cares about his money. If you’re not messing around with either of those, then you’re not even on his radar.”

But Sett really cares about his mom. Like, really, really cares about her. He even goes so far as to lie about where he gets his money to keep her hands clean and a roof over their heads (spoiler: it’s the fighting pits).

And just like that, the jacked juggernaut was complete. He had two arms, no tail, and hair that’d make any anime villain jealous; a ma he loves; a kit filled with flashy wrestling moves; and daddy issues. He was perfect.

“For a long time Reav3 kept calling Sett, Seth,” laughs Lonewingy. “We managed to convince him it was too real world and went with Sett instead.”
“For a long time Reav3 kept calling Sett, Seth,” laughs Lonewingy. “We managed to convince him it was too real world and went with Sett instead.”

… But even though his story was already written, the team couldn’t help but wonder what Sett’d be like if his father hadn’t left.

“He’d probably be a good boy going to college and finishing a degree so he could support his mom,” says Lonewingy.

“But don’t you think he’d go check out the pits anyway?” JohnODyin interjects. “Although he probably wouldn’t have had the desire to fight… ”

“Yeah, he picked up that path because of the hard life he lived with his mom,” agrees Riot Twin Enso.

“I guess I don’t really know where he’d be,” admits JohnODyin. “ But I do know he wouldn’t be Sett anymore—that’s for sure.”
Hey all, with the Player Choice Fiddlesticks VGU now in full production, we thought it’d be a good time to do a deep dive into our current progress. The team has some truly horrifying stuff planned for its release a little later this year, so this blog might not be for the faint of heart. We’ll be getting really nitty-gritty with some of Fiddle’s work-in-progress animations, VFX, modeling, and more, so consider this your final warning: spoilers, spooky stuff, and dense info lie ahead.

An Ancient Evil Takes Form
In case you missed the previous posts, our goal with updating Fiddlesticks is to transform it into the most terrifying champion in League of Legends.

As far as gameplay goes, we want Fiddle to be the iconic ambush champion, with a kit that’s centered around the concept of fear. This goes deeper than just a point-click status effect, which is staying on the kit. But beyond that, we’re giving Fiddle new mechanics that are built around its iconic Crowstorm. This includes giving Fiddlesticks more ways to stay hidden and find—or create—opportunities to ambush enemies. When a player succeeds at executing the perfect jump scare, we want to also make sure they’re in a powerful position to win the fight.

Experienced Fiddlesticks players will wreak mental havoc on their victims as they question what is real and what is a terrifying effigy.

Proxy idle animation from the previous dev blog—new versions are below!

During early story development, we brainstormed where the “new” Fiddlesticks could fall and what faction or race it might fill. Fiddle doesn’t really look like anything else in the game, so it could hypothetically be placed almost anywhere. And there’s that name: Fiddlesticks. A necromancer probably wouldn’t call their bloodthirsty new creation Fiddlesticks, nor would a warlock read from the grimoire of Dread Lord Fiddle In The Middle.

“Fiddlesticks” is a name a child would coin; something you might invoke around a campfire to scare your friends.

When we look at truly ancient champions like Ornn or Tahm Kench, they have hundreds or even thousands of origin stories and tales surrounding them. Fiddlesticks could easily fit in among them, having preyed on mankind for godless ages, so it would make sense that there would be nursery rhymes and storybook fables and old wive’s tales about a living scarecrow. Monster? Harvest deity? Eldritch artifact, controlled by some other person or creature? Instead of settling on one, Fiddle could invoke them all, an ancient malevolence with unclear origins, gone from the world long enough for warnings to become stories, stories to become myths, and myths to become simple children’s tales… until now.

As an utterly inhuman entity (regardless of what its true origins are), Fiddle lacks internal organs, a brain to think, or vocal chords to form sentences. Any type of voice it might have wouldn’t sound like a person, but rather a projection: Just as a scarecrow is the crude facsimile of a human being, its voice could be a crude mimicry of people it has come across/killed. We’re still super excited about this direction, and it’s something we want to implement for its VO.

Final Fiddlesticks Concept Art
Final Fiddlesticks Concept Art

And as for visuals… Well, Fiddlesticks is a demon who feeds on fear, so we wanted to create something that’d incite terror in those who stumble upon it in the dark.

Now for the new stuff! Let’s jump into how the Fiddlesticks team transformed the concept art into something playable in game. Keep in mind that all work shown below is still very work in progress!

Fabricating a Monstrosity
Step 1, step 2. EZPZ.
Step 1, step 2. EZPZ.

Jason “00Y00” Namgung, Character Artist: Modeling a character is two easy steps, you start with a sphere and then… final product. EZPZ.

On a more serious note, jumping into the Fiddle project, I was given an in-progress concept, and we had questions that needed answering. To name a few: How does its silhouette read in-game? How should it move? Are there any elements on the model that don’t work? How are the proportions of its body parts? To find those answers, I started out with creating a really quick and dirty proxy model just to get it into the game.

Proxy Model
Proxy Model

Once we finished all our testing and experimentation during pre-production, we moved into the production phase and really started building out the final high-poly model. A high-poly model is a higher polygon density model that we can digitally sculpt on (feels very similar to clay). I started replacing all the super simple, basic geometry pieces with the more complex mechanical pieces that Fiddle is made out of. This is the part where 3d artists normally go crazy on tiny detailing, but for League, it’s actually better for us to do really clean and simple sculpt with only big- and medium-detail shapes.

High-Poly Model
High-Poly Model

Once Fiddle’s high-poly model was finished, I went back to the refined proxy as the base for the final in-game model, just to save on time and sanity… I mean, efficiency. I come from a sculpting background and have less experience in painting, so rather than starting off from scratch, I used multiple maps baked from of the high-poly model such as the Normal, Ambient Occlusion, Curvature, and more to push the character’s textures further along. Then I throw it into a painting program and begin the “real” work of getting it to look good in League.

Work in Progress Fiddlesticks' Textures
Work in Progress Fiddlesticks' Textures

Just sit and paint, paint, and paint some more ’til it starts looking better. Still a work in progress!

Current Progress on Fiddle Model (Subject to Change)
Current Progress on Fiddle Model (Subject to Change)

Coming to a nightmare near you.

Rigging an Eldritch Puppet
Dawon “Riot WONY” Lee, Technical Artist: As a tech artist, I make the rig, which is comprised of bones and controllers in the model—the stuff that enables animators to move around specific parts of the model and bring the character to life.

Normally, when I set up champions, I consider how the character moves naturally. For example, Yuumi’s face rig can make natural and cute facial expressions, and Senna’s ghost cloak setup flows in a natural way. However, developing Fiddlesticks’ rig was different. When we started to set up Fiddlesticks, who’s basically a puppet, my goal was to create a setup that supports both unnatural and natural movements that feel similar to a demon or ghost.

The animator suggested putting an unnatural head shake into the animation when Fiddlesticks moves. I thought it was a really cool idea so I added a rig element that we call “jiggle” that helps animators create naturally flowing animation along a chain of joints. We usually use it for parts such as capes and tails. We haven’t used this function on champions’ head and jaw, so I wasn’t sure if it would work successfully. However, the results were exactly the unnatural head and jaw movements we wanted, making Fiddlesticks look eerie.

One of the biggest changes in the new concept of Fiddlesticks is a long right arm with big sharp claws to accentuate its spookiness. The animator wanted to create a walk animation to highlight its terrifying right arm where Fiddlesticks drags its sharp claws on the ground as it walks toward the enemy. Imagine in a horror movie, the enemy dragging his bloody weapon to the ground and walking toward the main character… super spooky.

I wanted to find the best way to make its arm look like a huge weapon and move in the same direction of its body, but to also make it look creepy and unnatural. A function called “Dragon Turn Tech” was set up on its right arm to make the arm follow its body naturally while also adding a creepy element to the movement. It may seem to be a minor change in animation, but it has a major impact and makes the animation look more realistic in game.


Bringing an Inanimate Object to Life
Luke “LukeHop” Hu, Animator: When I first saw its character design, I knew that animating Fiddlesticks wouldn’t be easy. Firstly, we need to figure out its character. Fiddlesticks is a mysterious ancient demon living in the body of a scarecrow. It’s a dangerous predator, so its poses and movements need to look a bit intimidating. At the same time, its body proportion is weird. Its right arm is long and heavy, and its legs are very slim and weak (especially with the little nail/fork feet), so its movements need to be a little unnatural and lack stability.


Another important thing I always kept in my mind was that Fiddle’s brain isn’t in its head, but in a cage in its chest. So its head can be treated as a decoration, since what’s really doing the “thinking” is the demon living inside the cage. This demon has no substance. But when it’s eager to hunt, you’ll see it try to break through the cage and reach its prey with two demon arms.


The concept of a scarecrow is also an important thing for Fiddlesticks, so you’ll often see Fiddle’s iconic “T-pose” during its idle, complete with a lantern swinging animation.


Visualizing an Ancient Evil
Jason “Riot Lanky Tree” Chisolm, VFX Artist: Green is oftentimes not a very terrifying color unless you’re from the Shadow Isles (then it’s horrifying). Fiddlesticks, however, isn’t a shadowy entity from a far-off island. It’s a demonic entity ready to appear when you least expect it, and Fiddle needed a new color palette to reinforce this. As some players noticed when we revealed the new concept, there’s a new color palette made up of mostly reds and blacks on the scythe, and this carries over into the VFX. We went with red and black to make the demonic origin even more apparent, but color is only one of the many aspects that make up a champion’s VFX.

After the colors were decided, it was time to focus on the shapes and textures that would be utilized throughout the kit. Shape plays a huge role in creating iconic VFX for champions. To contrast Fiddle’s newer, more mechanical appearance and to allude more to the demonic entity within, I wanted to create a mix of ambiguous organic shapes, soft wispy shapes, and sharp dangerous ones.


Even with these changes, there were still core parts of Fiddlesticks’ previous identity we wanted to keep and enhance. Let’s take a look at Crowstorm. Crowstorm is a pretty unique ability—it takes up a lot of screen space, lasts for a while, moves with Fiddlesticks, and Fiddle can cast other abilities while it’s active. Plus, the name “Crowstorm” conjures up an image of an intense flurry of feathers, dark wind, and demonic energy. All in all, creating the VFX for Crowstorm is a careful balancing act to make it easily readable without downplaying the importance of it in a fight.

I knew I would need a solid plan going into Crowstorm’s update in order to fully deliver on the fantasy of this ability. I focused on what I wanted players to feel, both for the channel and for what happens once Fiddlesticks blinks into the fight looking for kills. For the channel, I really wanted to push the sense of the demon having an uncontrollable urge to kill to the point where it’s literally bursting out of Fiddlesticks. Once channeled, this ability needs to grab attention since it’s a new player entering the fight often from out of vision. In order to do this, I played up a lot of the initial blink with thematic-reinforcing elements such as demonic script, bursts of dark smoke, a bit of distortion, and of course lots of crows.


What’s Next for Champions?
We’re also talking about the Volibear VGU and some upcoming champions in today’s Champion Roadmap video. We’ll share more details about Volibear in a dev blog later this year.

We can’t wait to finally get the Fiddlesticks update into your hands. In the meantime, we’ll leave you with one last thing from development…
Hey everyone! By now, you might have heard a bit about Riot Forge, Riot’s third-party publishing label, and two of our recently announced games with Airship Syndicate and Double Stallion Games. If you’re here, you’re probably interested in learning more about them, so… let’s jump into it!

We still have a way to go and we’ll be sharing more as we get closer to launching the first batch of games, but today, we’re excited to answer some of the questions you may have about Riot Forge and our first two games: Ruined King: A League of Legends Story and CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story.

What is Riot Forge?
Riot Forge is a separate label within Riot Games that is focused on publishing League of Legends games from third-party game studios.

Within Riot, we are a small team working with experienced developers to forge (ayy, finger guns) new games in the League of Legends universe, and also forge lasting partnerships with the game studios we are working with. These talented and experienced devs are creating a variety of League of Legends games that dive deep into the regions of Runeterra and enable you to connect with the champions and characters who live there.

02_Forge_Concept1_l97uywotlnqob8xrr0w7.png
Why are you publishing games instead of making them?
Riot’s current games—which includes both League of Legends and the new games we’ve recently announced—are mostly live-service games that primarily focus on the competitive, multiplayer experience. This is what a lot of players want, and we’re of course going to keep investing in this space internally at Riot. But we also know that most League players play other games (no surprise here), and that there’s a ton of other players who aren’t super into League the MOBA but who are interested in League the universe.

We want to make games for all of these players.

03_Forge_Concept2_mn5l7gdecb0489svz09c.jpg
We’ve been running League for about a decade now, and through all the trials and tribulations, we’ve learned a lot about what it takes to keep a live-service game going. We’ve become more experienced and efficient with time, which allows us to make even better stuff. Much of these learnings carry over to similar live-service titles, but creating single-player games in different genres is a bit different.

Not only that, but spinning up the teams needed to create such a wide genre of games would take years—both to get the people with the right experience in place and to create the right structures to support them. And we want to move faster than that.

There are so many storytelling and gameplay opportunities within the world of Runeterra that we want to bring to life. Partnering with existing developers who already have the expertise, talent and pipelines in place means we can bring high-quality games to you much more quickly and in a variety of ways. Each game will include the developers DNA and unique way of representing League both visually and within the story.

04_Forge_Concept3_bxcb9ew16bb8upxqb63i.png
So wait, are you just handing over my favorite champion?
No but also yes :)

We are not just handing over the League IP—including the champions, world, and characters—to other game studios. These partnerships are not licensed IP collaborations; they are true partnerships where we work together to ensure the game is great. We’ll be working with partner studios to help them find their own voice within the League universe, while guiding them to ensure that the stories being told are authentic to the characters and the world we’ve been developing over the last 10 years. In other words, you don’t have to worry about a character like Braum suddenly becoming a villainous grump.

At the same time, we want to empower the developers we’re working with to create their own space to tell stories and reimagine League in their own style. We’ll be working with them to avoid any conflicts and to make connections to other League universe happenings whenever possible.

And in case you’re wondering… yes, the core narratives in these games will be canon, albeit with some moments and characters being specific to the stories told within the game. This means we can move some of the lingering stories of Runeterra forward in new and interactive ways, which is something we’re really excited about.

05_Forge_Concept4_c2u5ht8jvansmevipath.png
Can you tell me more about how these partnerships work?

Sure! So there are tons of people at Riot who love to play single-player games, and we know there are lots of talented indie game studios around the world who know how to make them. We want to give studios who have made incredible games the freedom to create new League of Legends games in their unique style, whether it be art, game mechanics, or narrative design.

For those of you interested in the nitty-gritty details, we actually tried different versions of co-development, where we actively build a game directly with third-party developers. We found that this could be quite complex and didn’t always provide partners with the right level of freedom. Looking at these learnings has helped us move into the current model, where the game studios we are working with get to own and create their game, and we take the role of a traditional publisher. This means we do not provide any hands-on development support—the development of the game is 100% on our partners. This gives our developers the flexibility and freedom to use their talent and make great games.

In addition to providing guidance throughout development, we’ll also help support many other areas that are needed to ship a game for a global audience, including QA, localization, voiceovers, narrative, research, marketing, and more. Basically, we’ll be there till the end, helping to get the game into the hands of players and ensuring it’s an experience players will appreciate, enjoy, and create amazing memories around.

How do you find game studios to work with?
The Riot Forge team loves attending game events and gatherings so we can meet with game studios and build relationships with developers. The game development community is important to us, and we want to find partners that are passionate about making games and find League an interesting universe to work in.

It always starts with a meeting. From there if it feels like a great fit, we’ll start talking about what the collaboration could look like, which always starts with the game. The ideas come directly from the studio. Generally they have a couple of ideas we chat through, and we help to ensure that it fits correctly in the overall Riot Forge portfolio. We manage this portfolio quite closely because we don’t want two of the same game or games that have a similar story line, as the whole point of games published by Riot Forge is that they are different and explore many areas of the League universe.

Once we settle on an overall idea, agree on the main champion, and things feel good, we move forward and the collaboration is born!

Then it’s all about making an awesome game, and that’s what our developers do best.

07_Forge_Concept6_kw16dzz5rzw53u5x82po.jpg
What types of games are you going to publish?
Riot Forge is focused on releasing bespoke, completable game experiences that connect players to the champions and places in Runeterra through immersive stories and design. Completable games refers to a game that has a beginning, a middle, and an end. It’s an experience that feels complete when you are done, but leaves lasting memories of certain moments in the game because they made you laugh, cry, or anything in-between.

These games will vary in size and depth depending on what experience our developers want to make. The key thing is that these games will be bespoke, which means they’ll be hand-crafted, unique experiences, whether that’s through the way our developers uniquely reimagine League from a visual perspective, or through immersive storytelling.

Our partners are independent studios consisting of smaller teams of specialist developers, so they do not have thousands of people working at their studios. This means the games they create will be more in the indie space, and the scale is smaller than large AAA games.

08_Forge_Concept7_zti4o9rt2b6h9dov9j5h.jpg
What platforms will these games be on?
We’re designing each of these games with the right platform in mind for the best possible experience, which means Riot Forge games could go to PC, console, Switch, and/or mobile.

We basically want to go wherever people are playing in order to provide a wide-range of experiences, so you’ll see us exploring a bunch of different platforms.

What else can you tell us about Ruined King: A League of Legends Story?

Ruined King: A LoL Story is the first game coming from Riot Forge. It’s a story-driven RPG with deep turn-based combat and takes place after the events of Burning Tides.

You’ll play as League champions and explore Bilgewater and the mysterious Shadow Isles for the very first time! We’re really excited for you to be able to interact with these regions in brand new ways.

We’re partnering with Airship Syndicate who have a long history of both creating and working within great IPs and also have an incredibly beautiful and unique art style directed by their co-founder Joe Madureira (Joe Mad), a celebrated comic artist who created the Battle Chasers comic series. Airship really gravitated to the rich story opportunities that the events of Burning Tides inspires and felt passionate about bringing Bilgewater and the Shadow Isles to life.

We feel the partnership with Airship Syndicate is perfect for us. Creating a story-driven, turn-based RPG is something we are super excited to see come together. League of Legends lends itself well to RPG-style gameplay due to the diversity of champions and stories that we are able to tell.

We hope players fall in love with the story, and we’re also excited to work with Airship Syndicate to provide players with this new way to experience Runeterra.

09_Forge_Concept8_4yd52l9ehrpm3x2bmy86.jpg
What about CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story?

CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story, is a single player, action platformer game where you’ll get to explore the spectacular world of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time.

CONV/RGENCE: A League Story is being developed by Double Stallion Games. They recently launched Speed Brawl, a 2D combat-racer about moving fast and maintaining momentum through speed runs. Prior to that they worked on OK K.O.! with Cartoon Network and Big Action Mega Fight. We are hyped to work with Double Stallion and love the way create unique player experiences using gorgeous 2D hand-animated aesthetics that feel fresh and dramatic.

Double Stallion always wanted to make a game featuring Ekko, and we know how much our players love this champion. He has lots of cool combat and time-related mechanics that work well in an action platformer. There are also many storytelling opportunities with Ekko due to the relationship between Zaun and Piltover and the breadth of champions that live in those regions.

We’re looking forward to sharing how Double Stallion explores these stories and brings them to life in-game.

10_Forge_Concept9_irwd2oka5psesx2da2v2.png
What’s next for Riot Forge?
We’ll be sharing more about both of these games next year, including deeper gameplay details and release dates.

And this is just the beginning for us. We’re exploring numerous other games, and we hope to be able to give you a sneak peak at some of them next year. In the meantime, you can follow Riot Forge on Twitter for the latest updates.

Thank you so much for reading!
Hi everyone, we’re back with an update on Clash. Earlier this year, we shared a list of everything we’d need to accomplish to launch Clash globally. We’ve since run a total of 22 tournaments over six weekends in 11 regions. Today we’re pleased to announce that the latest version of Clash has proven to be stable throughout these tests. We ran into some small issues, but we were able to correct them. And we beat the final boss by holding a successful Clash weekend in EU (thanks for being so patient, EU friends!).

Because of this, we feel confident moving forward to our next milestone, which is a global beta across all regions simultaneously. This global beta will be our biggest yet, and it’ll take place across two weekends: December 7–8 and December 14–15.

There will be new, exclusive rewards that can only be earned during this two-weekend Clash tournament. We’ll also be using the ticketing system, meaning players will need to unlock Basic Tickets through missions, the Clash website, or with Blue Essence in order to compete.

This global beta will also be an opportunity for players to try out the new Rise of the Elements changes on Summoner’s Rift in a more competitive setting before the new Ranked season begins.

So Where Are We At Now?
Redesign: Done.
More Internal Testing: Done.
Regional Testing: Regional tests are finished! We caught and squashed some bugs and feel good moving forward after a successful test in EU.
Global Beta (preseason): This is where we’re at now. We’ll be running a global beta during preseason, which will consist of two weekends of Clash tournaments running simultaneously in all Riot regions. We’ll have new rewards, and players will have a chance to compete on the new Summoner’s Rift changes.
Launch (2020): Once the global beta is complete, we’ll have a clearer idea about how Clash works in the real-world. We’re going to take a little time after the beta to fix any issues that crop up, but if things run generally smoothly, we’re prepared to launch Clash a few months into 2020.
Closing Thoughts
We’re really excited to be so close to finally making Clash a reality. Your patience, participation, and excitement around Clash has really kept us going, and we look forward to seeing you in the global beta this December!
A lot has changed since we last talked broadly about the state of alternative game modes in League. With Teamfight Tactics fully launched worldwide, now seems like a good time to provide some updates about the current state of our game modes and where we’re heading in the future.

Our goal with alternative game modes has changed quite a bit over the last year. In the past, we’ve explored modes that put a unique spin on the core League of Legends gameplay. Game modes like Odyssey: Extraction, Star Guardian: Invasion, and PROJECT// Overcharge were exciting for a while, but they didn’t continue to hold your interest for very long. In other words, players were excited to try these modes but would quickly return to Summoner’s Rift after the novelty wore off.

On the flip side, we saw that modes like ARURF and One-For-All kept you queueing up for more even beyond their initial run due to their replayability and similarity to SR. What we found was that modes that focused on being unique could never keep interest in the same way modes that focused on high replayability could. So to that end, the Modes Team is focusing all of our attention on improving the existing long-term game modes and discovering new, potentially long-term modes that you can play for years.

02_Teamfight_Tactics
Teamfight Tactics
A very recent example of this new focus can be seen with our latest game mode, Teamfight Tactics. TFT doesn’t share the usual long-term mode trait of being similar to SR, but it’s not a spin on core League gameplay either: Instead of controlling a single champion and using their abilities, we created League’s take on the new auto-battler genre. One of our main goals behind TFT was to make a mode you could play for a long time, which meant it was really important to create variant experiences and high moments. In other words, you should always have something new to try or chase after, and it should feel exciting to do so.

Because TFT’s core gameplay is fundamentally different from Summoner’s Rift and the other modes we’ve released before, we’ve seen players use it as a way to unwind between ranked games or as something to do with friends of different skill levels. But we’ve also seen that TFT is deep enough to support players who want to be TFT mains.

We’ve been blown away by how much everyone seems to be enjoying the mode, so even though it’s still early, we’ve made the call to make Teamfight Tactics permanent! Moving forward, we’ll continue to support this mode with changes almost every patch and multiple new champion sets (and ranked seasons) each year.

If all continues to go well, we hope we’ll eventually be able to create more modes with completely unique gameplay for you!

03_ARURF
ARURF+
URF has been our most popular alternative mode (though TFT is giving it a run for its money!), and we made some pretty big changes earlier this year when we ran ARURF+. From the gameplay changes, we currently plan on keeping the Catapult of Champions because it sped up the pace of matches and enabled lots of big plays. The buffed-up dragon was also exciting, but securing it gave teams too much power too early in the game, so expect to see some adjustments there.

But the biggest change wasn’t a gameplay adjustment—it was how long we left the mode on for. Previously, our longest run of ARURF was 16 days, but this time we left it running for 42 days straight! During this time, we saw players play a ton of ARURF+ all the way up until the very last day, and once we turned it off everything went back to normal. 

We think URF is our best example of a mode that can bring a ton of excitement each time it comes back, and I can happily say that some form of URF will be back one more time this year.

04_Nexus_Blitz
Nexus Blitz
Nexus Blitz was our first attempt at a new always-on mode that could last a long time. As we discussed before, players overall really enjoy Nexus Blitz for the first few weeks of availability but stop playing pretty quickly after that. While Nexus Blitz didn’t have the level of consistent engagement we’re looking for in an always-on mode, it still makes for a really strong game mode we’d like to bring back a couple times a year. Look forward to all the same fun events and rewards when it returns!

05_ARAM
ARAM
During last year’s Pyke/Bilgewater event, we experimented with ARAM to see how making gameplay changes would affect the way different audiences (both casual and hardcore) play the mode. We found that these changes didn’t really modify how or how much people play ARAM, but the most dedicated ARAM players appreciated that the mode received balance adjustments and improvements like Summoner’s Rift.

So with this year’s Bilgewater mini-event, we tried out a few more changes. Some of them were a bit more ambitious, like a new ARAM-exclusive Summoner Spell, and others were a bit simpler, like runes and champion balance. For a full breakdown of the results of these changes, you can check out this wrap-up post.

Notably, our approach to balancing ARAM was more successful than we expected. Champs that were at a huge disadvantage before balancing now at least had ways to win, and champs that were almost free wins now had to work a little harder. We saw players initially struggle to adjust since the mode had previously been in almost the same state of champion balance for years, but overall we think this has made the mode higher-quality in the long run. This is why we’re going to continue balancing ARAM every few patches, with some bigger changes once a year or so—a decision that’s in line with our new approach of investing more in our existing long-term modes.

06_Twisted_Treeline
Twisted Treeline
Since we’ve been focusing on modes like ARAM a bit more, we’ve seen a few people ask, “What about Twisted Treeline?” One of League’s original alternative game modes, Twisted Treeline has been a place for League players to get the MOBA experience of Summoner’s Rift on a different map with a different meta. However, Treeline has always suffered from low queue sizes, even in times when we added new items, map-specific champion balance, and even the Twisted Treeline redesign waaayy back in 2012. At present, it falls short of even the numbers we saw at the end of Nexus Blitz’s second run. This small population leads to long queue times, poor matchmaking, and ultimately an unsatisfying PvP experience for many of the players who do queue up for Treeline.

Outside of the player population, Twisted Treeline’s art, map design, and even game pacing don’t meet today’s current quality bar and player needs. We debated on whether an ARAM-esque level of support would bring it up to standard, but the lack of growth from the previous efforts we mentioned led us to the conclusion that it just wouldn’t be enough to make Treeline a healthy long-term mode. So at the end of this season, we will be retiring Twisted Treeline. Like Dominion before it, we’re sad to see a longtime part of the game disappear. But we feel this is the best decision for League, as it lets us keep our focus on our larger game modes.

You’ll still be able to earn end of season rewards via Twisted Treeline this season, so a rank of Gold or higher will still get you the Victorious skin. There won’t be a TT specific chroma this year though, as we’ve seen in past seasons that non-Treeline players sometimes spam ranked 3s for the chroma, and we don’t want that to be your final experience with the mode. 

We will have a few small rewards for the most dedicated of TT players which we’ll grant once the mode is retired. Eligibility will be based on games played before today to ensure the integrity of the rewards. Details will be announced in the future.

07_Other_Modes
Other Modes and the Future
As for other older modes, we’ll be looking for opportunities to bring back the ones we think have long-term potential, like One-for-All. These modes are still really fun ways to mix up the core League experience, and we think that lots of people are excited to try out five Yuumi’s. We’re also still exploring even more ideas for other new modes with long-term potential. 

That’s it for now. We hope you continue to enjoy all the fun ways to play League of Legends. Until next time, good luck with your ranked games and may all your TFT champs be 3 stars!
Hey everyone! Eternals, our new champion-based achievement feature that lets you showcase personal accomplishments for your favorite champs, is heading to PBE for release on 9.17. You can read all about how to unlock and equip Eternals in the FAQ. In this post, we’ll be talking more in-depth about Eternals, including details on our goals, how we designed these new achievements, and what the future holds.

Why’d You Want to Make Eternals?
Every couple months, we send surveys to players all over the world asking what types of new personalization features they’d like to see in League. One of the top requests is always for champion-based achievements. We decided to explore what we could do in the space, knowing that we’d have to push through some challenges. Not only is it tricky to add meaningful achievements for 140+ champs, but we also wanted to push the envelope on what this kind of game system could deliver for League.

After a lot of exploration, we landed on a few core goals that we wanted to hit:

Provide players a way to show off their achievements in and out of game
Give players a new progression system beyond Mastery and Ranked
Reward players with unique perks for their success
With these in mind, we invited players to Riot to help lock down some of the details. For example, we worked with players to find the right balance between broadly-appealing accomplishments, like kills and takedowns, and unique, champion-specific moments, like Sylas’s “Stop Hitting Yourself,” an Eternal which tracks how many times Sylas kills an enemy with their own ultimate.

Will Eternals Encourage Bad Behavior?
We do a game design review for every Eternal we create to ensure that, on paper, it’s not incentivizing a suboptimal playstyle. Then we follow this up with playtests to validate “in the moment” feels. This process has been hugely helpful in refining our designs to hit the goal of Eternals—they should reward positive play patterns that are exciting and meaningful to achieve. Balancing positive intent with satisfying Eternal design has been a challenge, so be sure to give us feedback once you’ve played with them if you feel we’ve swung too hard in either direction.

Additionally, we’ve taken several steps to minimize objective-setting with Eternals in game. You can always check how close you are to the next Eternals milestone with the hover tooltip in game, but a tracker isn’t always front-and-center. (At one point, we actually tried removing all ways to track your milestone progress in-game, but that felt pretty bad, so we compromised with the tooltips.)

Much like the Missions and Mastery systems in the past, we expect we’ll refine Eternals over time and tune them based on your feedback. We’ll keep an eye on how things are going after launch, and if you see players acting in bad faith to min-max their Eternals, feel free to report them in game and let us know.

Why are Eternals Only Available for RP?
We took a look at how other games have tackled similar systems to see what felt good and what could use some improvement. Existing systems like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive’s loot boxes for StatTrak weapons and Dota 2’s subscription model for Hero Relics showed us that rarity was a core component for these types of systems. As a result of what we were seeing, we initially designed an early version of Eternals with a loot-based system, but it felt overly complicated and too punishing to be a satisfying approach for League. As a result, we went back to the basics: We’d package sets of three Eternals for players to get with RP.

Additionally—and for complete transparency—Eternals were a huge undertaking to build. The system has a significant amount of new tech powering it to ensure that it works consistently and reliably. We also want to support and expand upon this feature for years to come, and with so many champions to build and maintain Eternals for, the only way we could justify supporting the feature was to attach an RP price to it.

What’s Up With All the Statues?
We wanted to create different visual representations of the types of achievements you’ll be showing off on the Rift. To do that, we explored the idea of appeasing ancient Runeterran gods that responded to your accomplishments, which allowed us to create multiple types of Eternals, with each representing different gameplay pillars.

Here’s a breakdown of each Eternal and the accomplishments they represent:


The Warden

Controlling champions in fights via CC
Motto: “You play on MY terms.”
Sample Champions: Sejuani, Nunu

The Protector

Damage / CC mitigation via tanking, shielding, or prevention
Motto: “Not today.”
Sample Champions: Braum, Shen

The Empress

Superior micro / macro; flawless play or decision-making
Motto: “Big brains. Big plays.”
Sample Champions: Fiora, Ezreal

The Guide
Enabling teammates to make plays and stay in the fight
Motto: “TAKE THE LANTERN.”
Sample Champions: Soraka, Sona

The Warrior

Harm in the most brutal, straightforward way possible
Motto: “Rekt.”
Sample Champions: Mordekaiser, Darius

The Trickster

Deceitful, manipulative mind games
Motto: “/all ?”
Sample Champions: Shaco, Teemo
It’s important to note that these aren’t hard and fast rules. There were several Eternals that we heavily debated when assigning their alignments, like Shen’s Eternal, “Party Crasher.”

“Party Crasher” is a Protector Eternal that increments when you ult to an ally then taunt an enemy within a few seconds of arriving. You could make the argument that this is actually a Trickster Eternal, since in some cases a low health ADC is used as bait to turn a fight. However, we decided that in most instances, Shen’s intent for this particular moment is protecting his target and mitigating damage. There are a number of different Eternals that went through similar processes, and we weighed as many factors as possible in our decision for alignments.

Additionally, our launch set of Eternals has a healthy mix of different achievements to track, some of which are fairly skill-based and others less so. Our Player Labs indicated a wide-range of desires from this system, so we wanted to experiment a bit and see what resonates for our initial set. We’ve already got a list of potential Eternals for Set 2 that we’re playing with, but we’d love to hear what Eternals you’d want to see for your favorite champions going forward!

What Do I Get for Leveling Up My Eternals?
When we decided to add progression to Eternals, we wanted players to have moments where they felt especially awesome with rewards that felt unique. One of the ideas we were inspired by came from the fitness world: Personal Bests. We loved the idea of Eternals being a way for you to capture an awesome game on your main, and let you show it off to everyone in the moment.

We didn’t want everyone to hit their Personal Best in their first or second game, though, so we made it a reward that’s revealed after rekindling an Eternal. Rekindling is when you hit the 5th milestone on one Eternal, and it has a ramping progression that takes roughly the same amount of time as it does to get Mastery 5 on a champion. Once you’ve rekindled your Eternal and unlocked your Personal Best, the time between milestones flattens out so that you can see your achievements more frequently!

Here’s an example of what the progression might look like:

08_Sample_Eternals_Milestone_Curve.png
HERE’S HOW THE PROGRESSION FOR AN ETERNAL MIGHT LOOK THROUGH MILESTONE 5: RAMPING IN THE BEGINNING, THEN EASIER AND FLAT AFTERWARDS!
Additionally, beating your Personal Best in a match has a special milestone callout in-game that highlights the moment to everyone, and it will also be mentioned in the end-of-game screen!

A personal best milestone in action.  

We also wanted to find a satisfying set bonus reward for rekindling all of the Eternals in a set that could scale over time. Like most great ideas, the answer came from players in early playtesting of the system: an upgraded Mastery Emote! This idea was really exciting for the team because it meant expanding on something that players already understand and use, rather than introducing a new keybinding. Now when you rekindle all of the Eternals in a set, your Mastery Emote will upgrade with special marks and an evolving flame effect to indicate how many sets you’ve rekindled!


The first Mastery Emote upgrade from rekindling a set.

What’s Next for Eternals?
Launch is just the beginning for Eternals! As we said earlier, we’re already in the process of making Set 2 for all of the champions in the game, but we want your feedback after you’ve had a chance to play with the first set. We’ve also been tossing around a few ideas for additional features for Eternals, like letting you skin your milestones (e.g. Star Guardian or PROJECT) or seasonal leaderboards, but nothing is set in stone just yet.

A fully upgraded Mastery Emote (5 sets rekindled).

We’re super excited to get Eternals in your hands and can’t wait to see you all flexing your achievements to the world. See you on the Rift!
Hey everyone. After spending the last two weeks reading all your thoughts and collecting feedback from players all over the world, we’re ready to give an update on Eternals. We know it took longer than some of you wanted, but we wanted to be able to share the concrete changes we’re making.

In case you missed it, Eternals are a new type of cosmetic that let you showcase your accomplishments in League, counting both unique and general gameplay milestones on a per-champion basis. In-game, you’ll see milestones “pop up” on the side of the screen as you hit statistical checkpoints for that Eternal.

Other in-game features include a new flair for that champion’s Mastery emote, a list of Eternals at the back of a champion’s loading screen card, and a showcase of your Eternals on enemies’ death screens when you take them down. You can track your progress for each Eternal in the Progression tab of the client when not in game.

Now that we’ve refreshed on what Eternals are, on to the changes…

We’re delaying the launch of Eternals and are making adjustments based on your feedback, including:

Lowering the price of Eternals sets
Separating sets into Uniques and Commons
Creating more Unique Eternals per champion
Making Common sets available for BE during Essence Emporiums
Creating discounted Eternals bundles for those with larger champion pools
Eternals will now be separated into two set types: Common and Unique.

Common sets will only include broadly-applicable Eternals, such as Kills, Objectives Destroyed, and Takedowns. They’ll be available year-round for 225 RP and twice a year in the Essence Emporium for 3500 BE. Similarly to chromas, they’ll only enter the Essence Emporium once they’ve been live for six months, but as a special launch celebration, all Common sets will be available immediately in the Essence Emporium. Each Common set will contain three Common Eternals per champion.

Unique sets will only include custom-built Eternals for each champion, such as Sylas’ “Stop Hitting Yourself” and Shen’s “Party Crasher.” They’ll be available year-round for 590 RP. Each set will contain three Unique Eternals per champion.

We’re also exploring ways to offer discounted multi-champion bundles for players who want to pick up Eternals for multiple champs, but we haven’t figured out all the details just yet. We’ll have more to share as we get closer to the new launch.

If you’d like to try out Eternals now, head over to PBE to test them out on all your mains! They’ll remain on PBE until they go live, especially since we want your help coming up with new Unique Eternals and testing the ones that we’ll be adding regularly. We’ve already seen some great suggestions for new Eternals, and we hope you continue to share those—and your thoughts on the ones in testing—on the PBE Boards.

Your candid feedback after the reveal has been incredibly helpful, especially from those who saw what we saw in Eternals and took the time to outline what specifically felt bad and what you’d like to see improved. We hope you keep the comments coming as we work to create the best version of Eternals.
Conversations around balance can be rough. Over the past 9(!) years, we have found that players don’t necessarily always understand what we’re trying to accomplish (or can accomplish) in a patch cycle. But we want to change that.

Introducing the Champion Balance Framework, a source for all players to hold the “balance” team accountable for how we approach buffing/nerfing champions on a patch-to-patch basis. We’ve been making changes internally on the way we view champion balance for Summoner’s Rift. Now that we’ve had some time to see that change in action, we wanted to formalize this approach so if players dislike a change we make, they can at least understand why we decided to make that change.

What follows is our way of establishing consistent understandings of how we evaluate champions’ power level, especially for the purposes of determining if they ought to be buff or nerf candidates on any given patch. The hope here is that this approach will result in balance targets that feel much more consistent, and thus more understandable.

Champion Balance in the Past
The main improvement we’d like to make by creating a more visible balance strategy is that players feel like the approach to League’s balance decisions is consistent. We expect that a more consistent approach can be more easily trusted–inconsistency with our approach to balance can be the most frustrating thing for players, even more than any individual balance issues of the past or future.

To achieve this, we are putting in place a system that seeks to limit subjectivity in the assessment of (not the reasons for) a champion’s power level. By doing so, we should have fewer champs fly under the radar in either overpowered or underpowered states, and we also avoid risky bias-based balancing.

Updating Our Approach
In the past, we’ve operated under the rough guideline of “we balance for Plat+ play.” Despite that, we’ve demonstrated that we also make balance decisions under other conditions or for other reasons. As such, we’re now formally recognizing the four audiences for which we balance Summoner’s Rift, as well as the parameters that we view as underpowered, overpowered, and reasonably balanced. Here are the audiences:

Average Play

This group contains most players, everything below the top 10% of solo queue (approximately up through Gold). While some may argue that the game should be balanced around only the very best players of the game, we think a balanced experience is an important part of what makes League compelling regardless of skill level. That said, we also think this group’s experience is less sensitive to exact balance conditions, and so our definitions of what is too strong for them is less restricted.

Win rate tells us most of what we need to know about champions’ power level here, and combined with their ban rate, gives us a good view of what is too strong for this group of players. The more a champion is banned beyond the global average ban rate (ABR, currently ~7%), the more we use their ban rate as an expression of the champion’s power level in the tier, and the tighter a band we put on their win rate.

Top End: [54.5%WR if <ABR] to [52.5%WR at 5x ABR]
Bottom End: 49%WR
Skilled Play

This group contains the top 10% of solo queue players, except the very top players (the next group). This group is similar to the Average Play group, but with higher sensitivity to power level. As such, the parameters we use to determine what is too strong for this group are a bit more restricted.

Top End: [54%WR if <ABR] to [52%WR at 5x ABR]  
Bottom End: 49%WR
Elite Play

This group contains the top 0.1% of solo queue players, the best-of-the-best in solo queue. This group is the most sensitive to balance changes out of all the solo queue groups, and also has unique balance needs. Unlike the other solo queue groups, we rarely have sufficient win rate data to determine if something is too strong here (sample size is small due to the extremely limited size of the player audience). Even if we did, these players have mastered the game to such an extent that their champion select behaviors can be trusted as accurate representations of power level. To that end, we draw conclusions about power level based on pick rates in addition to ban rates, and we notably do not consider pick rate a strong indicator of power at any other solo queue tier. We introduce the concept of Presence in this tier, where Presence is the combined Pick and Ban rate of the champion.

Top End: 45% Ban Rate
Bottom End: 5% Presence
Professional Play

This group is the top five recognized leagues of competitive play (currently LPL, LCK, LEC, LCS, and LMS). Somewhat similar to Elite, we determine power level based on this group’s champion select behaviors more so than the results of the games in which they are picked. It’s arguable that just because a champion isn’t picked on a certain patch, that they’re not actually underpowered for this group, but rather that the meta just doesn’t currently allow them to be picked. Despite this reasonable stance, we will consider these champions underpowered in the context of the current meta, and we will balance around the champions’ power level within that meta.

Top End: 90% Presence on the current patch OR 80% presence in consecutive patches.
Bottom End: 5% Presence
Moving forward, we will consider a champion balanced for Summoner’s Rift if they can be considered balanced for any of these audiences. They will be considered overpowered if they cross the top end for ANY of the audiences, and they will holistically be considered underpowered if they are below the bottom end for ALL of the audiences.

Translating that understanding into action, our champion balance priorities are to immediately address champions that are overpowered, then address champions that are underpowered across the board, and when those are accounted for, working on making champions balanced across several audiences (for example, in cases where they might only be balanced for one or two audiences).

Turning Data Into Changes
Once we’ve identified champions that are out of balance, we get into the meaty stuff pertaining to how to actually adjust things. For this, there’s no definitive framework. We’ll continue to use our understanding of audiences’ needs and experiences to make good change. Our hope is that the above system for identifying imbalances allows us to more easily move beyond what is out of whack and get into the why that’s the case, as well as how we ought to address it. Put simply, the framework more easily gets us to the point of agreement on the fact that a champion like Hecarim (for a recent example) is overpowered, and then we get to work on how to fix it.


BUT WHAT ABOUT…

New and Reworked Champions?
New and updated champs won’t abide by these exact parameters for about one month after release. These champions are still actively being learned by the player base—both by those playing the champs and those playing with/against them—and we can expect the champions’ actual power levels to be much different from their statistical performance around launch.

Over the past year, we don’t think we’ve done a great job at balancing new and updated champions, so we’ve put new systems in place outside of our typical strategy to better accommodate them.

These systems focus on things like… a champion’s expected power level at release, their expected performance growth over the first few days/weeks, and plans for if their performance doesn’t match these expectations. This should help ensure no new or reworked champions remain underpowered or overpowered for significant periods of time after release in the future.

Champions With High Play Rates?
We’re pretty wary about punishing a champion for their popularity, as some champs will naturally be played more than others, even at statistically similar power levels—Yasuo and Lee Sin are two examples or champs who’re played pretty consistently, regardless of overall performance. We’ve considered using “play rate change” as a way to account for this, but we didn’t think it added enough value to the framework because play rate doesn’t seem to have a significant correlation to power level. The only exception to this is at the highest levels of play, where we do use play rate as an indication of power.

Champions With High Mastery Curves?
A mastery curve is a representation of how much more effective a player becomes on a champ as they play them more. Champions with steep mastery curves, like Aurelion Sol and Katarina, typically have a much higher win rate when played by experienced players than newcomers to the champion.

We are intentionally leaving out mastery curve data when considering which champions to buff or nerf because we don’t want to enact a system that might punish the investments players make into mastering a champion. We’re also optimistic that if a champion’s power when mastered is out of line, then it will show up as highly present in Pro play or highly banned in Elite play—both of which will lead to nerfs.

Really Frustrating Champs?
There are a lot of reasons a champion could be frustrating to play with or against, ranging from their current power level to their mobility. Using this framework—in tandem with things like survey data and player conversation—will help us to pinpoint exactly what’s causing the trouble. By having clear and objective balance breakpoints, we can better gauge when we can move on from balance work and into designing to reduce overly frustrating gameplay. These two things aren’t mutually exclusive though: Riven’s increased E cooldown in patch 9.10 is an example of a change aimed to reduce a champions’ power level and their “frustration factor” simultaneously.

Regional Differences?
The data we’re drawing from is globally aggregated rather than region-specific. There is potential for a champion’s performance to vary from region to region, but we feel that keeping the data global helps players focus on identifying what problem is being solved by the change regardless of what region plays it better (or not).

If we start changing champions based on a small number of regions’ experiences that can wildly vary from the rest of the world, we are likely to run into issues where the patch notes don’t make sense for players in the other regions. We believe if a trend or an especially spicy playstyle continues to persist, they will show up more prominently in the global data, in which we can then make changes to mitigate them.

It really is about limiting how random changes in the patch notes can feel to players. We expect it to be much easier to explain why we make balance changes based on different “audiences” (every region has average, skilled, and elite players) than to explain that a certain nerf is to account for something a specific region is experiencing.   

If No (or Few) Champions Fall Into Buff or Nerf Territory?
Then we’ve finally balanced League of Legends. Time to pack it up.

But really, if we’re in a stable state where we’ve dealt with most of the overly strong and weak champions, then our next priority is to make champions more balanced across multiple audiences, or consider reevaluating if the current power bands meet the game’s modern needs. It’s possible these bands shrink gradually over time, to some degree. There’s also always work to consider on runes, items, positions, and more to make sure all of these are balanced against one another.

So What About Items, Summoner Spells, and the Jungle?
There’s much more that goes into a balanced League experience than just the power level of champions. But champions are also the lens through which players experience the game, and the piece of the game that tends to resonate most strongly with players.

Most other patch work can be done in service to this approach. For example, we changed the Rift Scuttler’s spawn timer to open up the jungle to a wider variety of champions. We nerfed/changed Ardent Censer to make it so players didn’t feel like they absolutely had to pick enchanters. Generally speaking, when the power level of systemic content is so high that it dictates the champions you want to play, League is a much less compelling game for most players.  

If I Have Thoughts About The New System or Balance In General?
Please let us know! We think this new approach will ultimately lead to better, more consistent champion balance for players across all skill levels, but if the champions we’re targeting for buffs and nerfs don’t seem to make sense from your experience, we’re very open to adjusting it. We don’t expect to reach a point where perception lines up perfectly with the champs we buff and nerf, but we do hope this system brings us closer to that.

We’ll be around in the comments today to answer some of your questions and read your thoughts. On behalf of the entire Summoner’s Rift team, thanks for reading!
During the summer of 2018, we launched the Nexus Blitz alpha as the first “experimental game mode,” a new development approach where we start live testing of a game mode very early in development to help us determine if we should continue working on it. Based on the feedback we got during that first window, we decided to bring it back for a second, longer test run during Snowdown with a huge set of changes.

After seeing how players engaged while Nexus Blitz was live, we’ve decided not to make it permanent at this time. It remains a great mode to occasionally bring back in the future, especially when paired with an event, but players just weren’t playing it enough by the end of the run to keep it always turned on. We know this news might disappoint some Nexus Blitz mains, but the experiment of making it with the League community taught us a lot about what you value, and the lessons from Nexus Blitz will help us make our future modes even more resonant and broadly appealing.

The Second Run of Nexus Blitz
We structured this live window of Nexus Blitz to have two phases: The first four weeks took place during Snowdown as the central “special event” mode, and the last two weeks were a standalone experience. We changed the map a bunch, added new content, introduced bans, and brought in a huge list of other improvements. You can find the full changelist here.

How’d It Go?
At launch and during Snowdown, people played a ton of Nexus Blitz! There was a huge surge of players that queued up to experience all the changes, and total hours played in the first four weeks of the second run were double that of the first—that’s CRAZY. With the exception of the URF modes, Nexus Blitz had the highest engagement from players on an alternate game mode.

People really loved the new content added for this run—Prize Fight and URF Deathmatch were the favorite events by a mile, and the Battle Sled was the most loved reward from the list based on player surveys. Many of the other big changes like the updated map art, addition of bans, and forecast of which event was coming up were also broadly well-received. The quiet powerhouse, though, was the addition of the Nexus Blitz missions and the mode’s tie-in with Snowdown. We saw huge interest in the Nexus Blitz missions, mode-exclusive unlockable cosmetics, and the Snowdown missions to earn tokens.

But when Snowdown ended and the missions turned off for the last two weeks of the run, we saw a huge portion of Nexus Blitz players immediately go back to their usual modes. There was a significant drop in hours played per day, and engagement continued to decline for the rest of the run.

All this tells us that Nexus Blitz is at its best when it’s closely tied into an event. Most players wanted to check out the new, crazy, “wait, that happened in League??” moments, but the novelty of those experiences eventually faded. The big reason people came back consistently was because they had goals to work towards in the form of earnable cosmetics, mission completion, and tokens. Once they had achieved those goals, the vast majority of players preferred to switch back to their usual modes.

What We’ve Learned
Ideally the experimental mode that we make permanent will be able to draw people in over and over again, even after that first burst of novelty wears off and there isn’t an event going on. As we think about future experimental modes, we’ll be reflecting on the lessons learned here and using that knowledge to create a long-lasting experience that can repeatedly serve players. Excitingly enough, we’re already using some of these learnings in other modes. Recently, we brought the Catapult of Champions to ARURF+ so players don’t have to always take Teleport, and we also applied the Nexus Blitz balance approach to both ARURF+ and the ARAM event mode.

While we’re no longer considering Nexus Blitz as a permanent mode for the foreseeable future, we are going to treat it as a great mode to accompany events, especially given its flexibility to feature new in-game events and rewards. We’re already starting to think about when it could come back!

I want to take a moment to give a sincere “thank you” to the League community. Thank you so much for jumping in, looking past the unpolished parts, and having a great time playing this experimental mode. We loved seeing all the clips of Battle Sled crashes, Bardle Royale Poppy ults, and clutch Prize Fight duels.

As developers, it was amazing to get real feedback from the community so quickly, which only helped us to make more meaningful improvements to the mode right away. While we don’t have immediate plans, Nexus Blitz gained a lot from the “experimental modes” approach, and it’s a path we’ll consider for future prototypes. Thanks for helping us make a better (and blitzier) game mode!

To commemorate some of the mayhem, here are some tidbits our data analysts shared about the mode!

Nexus Blitz Fun Facts:
The Catapult of Champions was originally conceived of by Brian “Feral Pony” Feeney and is known as the FeeneyPult internally.
It is also known as the Int-Pult, but it’s not as bad as the Int-Sled, which was by far the lowest win rate reward and the best way to lose a lead. It was also most players’ favorite reward.
Despite having one of the highest win rates, Nasus had the lowest proportions of S grades and highest of D and C grades. Gotta get them stacks.
The Arena event winner had the highest win rate of any event, finally proving that “2v2, 2v2, 1v1 me” is a valid way to determine the better team.
About 1 in 5 games ended with Sudden Death Nexus-to-Nexus Combat.
Maokai was played the most on Nexus Blitz in comparison to Summoner’s Rift. He was also probably winning the most compared to SR.
Akali was one of the top 20 most played champions, despite having the lowest win rate in the game mode (41%).
The most purchased NB-exclusive item was Deathfire Grasp and the least purchased was Wriggle’s Lantern. Stat-Stick of Stoicism had the highest win rate (60%), but that’s mostly because only the people who were already winning could afford it.
Hey everyone! Ed “SapMagic” Altorfer here, back again to talk about Ranked. In our latest video we detailed how position ranks work, how we’re planning to roll it out in a couple stages, and how we’re preventing players from abusing the system. In this article, we’re going to cover what position ranks might be like for you based on how you play and how we tested position ranks.

Simulation: Online
A big problem with Ranked is how off-position games can feel less winnable, fun, and fair, especially since you can’t always get your main position. Even if we removed Autofill—which would triple or quadruple queue times for everyone—you might sometimes want to play a different position for a change of pace, which often puts your team at a disadvantage. We believed we could address both of these and give you a better picture of how good you are by tracking and displaying your skill by position—basically, position ranks.

Position ranks required major updates to matchmaking, MMR, and Ranked, systems that require us to play thousands or even millions of games to reliably catch bugs. That’s not really possible to do without going to live, but at the same time we wanted the Ranked overhaul to be as smooth as possible. To deal with this, we built new tools to help us replay tons of historical games, allowing us to be more confident and—hopefully—reduce the number of bugs that make it into your games.

Basically, with these tools we can simulate what your position ranks would look like this season if you played the same way as last season. Let’s run through a few examples, which should give you an idea of what to expect.

A Gold V player who usually queues Mid/Top
Your climb is pretty similar to last year, but your games feel more winnable and you have a clear picture of how good you are at the other positions you play.

Gold
Let’s say you were Gold V last season and you usually queue for Mid/Top, which is the most popular position combination globally. Over your first 50 games, you play 34 Mid games, 13 Top, and three in other positions—thanks, Autofill.

Your first Mid game nets you a provisional rank of Bronze I—a bit low, but you’ve got seven more games to go, and since you don’t lose LP during placements, you can only go up from there. By the end of placements, your record is 4-4 and you finish in Silver III. By your 50th game, you’ve crushed your Gold promos and you’re sitting at Gold III.

Top plays out similarly, but you start your climb slightly lower than in Mid. You end up finishing your placements, plus a couple extra games, putting you in Silver II. You haven’t played enough games to place in the other positions, so your friends see your Mid and Top ranks in your profile.

What if you throw your secondary and Autofill games?

Splashing helps minimize the grind and keep Ranked competitive by allowing some of your LP gains and losses to “splash” over to other positions each game. On top of that, negative splashing changes based on your recent games in the position you’re playing.

In the example above, if you throw many of those 16 secondary and Autofill games, negative splashing will become larger and start to hurt your progress in Mid. On the other hand, when you win secondary or Autofill games, splashing to your main position is boosted, so your best bet to rank up is to play your hardest and win as many of those games as possible.

A Bronze V player who usually queues Support/Mid
Your climb is similar to last year, but you can play new positions without hurting your team’s chances at winning.

Bronze
Alright, now let’s say you’re a Bronze V player who typically queues for Support/Mid. After your first game, you find yourself somewhere in Iron Tier, and you finish your placements in Iron III. You get autofilled less often than other players, which means less bonus splashing, but since you’re getting your main more, you’ll still rank up just as fast.

Eventually you decide to get better at Mid lane so you can play it when you queue with your other Support friends. You notice you’re facing easier competition than what you’re used to in bot lane, which makes sense. After all, we want you to play fair games, but what that means for you is different depending on your skill in the position you’re currently playing.

What if you always queue for your worst position and then swap for your best?

Since we matchmake you based on the position you’re assigned, swapping with someone in champ select can give you a momentary advantage. That’s not a big deal when it happens occasionally, but over time it can hurt match fairness.

To combat this, we added some new tech—which we’ve been testing in Normal Draft since summer—to accurately detect which position you play and whether you swap. When you trade positions frequently, we can tighten the links between your position MMRs. This means you may end up facing opponents who are better than you if you ever have to actually play the position you’ve been swapping away from.

A Silver III player who usually queues Fill
You climb steadily across all positions, but a little more slowly in any one than you would’ve last year.

Silver
Ok, so what if you’re a player who hit Silver III last season by queueing Fill every game? It takes you a few more games before you finish placements for any one position since you’re bouncing around, but eventually you finish your Support and Jungle placements around Bronze III.

Every game you queue Fill, you earn LP for the position you play, but you also get bonus Splash LP. Whereas a typical player might earn +3 LP to their other positions on a win, you’re earning closer to +7 LP. That means you’re probably climbing pretty quickly for the positions you play most often and you’re making progress in the others.

A high Master player who usually queues Top
Your climb is streamlined because, while your provisional rank is capped at Platinum I, you can climb into Diamond by the end of placements.

DIamond
Finally, imagine you’re a player who was high Master last season. Whereas previously the highest you could place was Platinum I, now that’s the highest provisional rank you can earn, meaning you have seven more games to make the push into Diamond.

As you continue your climb toward the upper tiers, positional matchmaking has less of an effect on your games. Then, when you promote into Master, your position ranks combine into a single rank reflecting your spot on the ladder.

Two weeks in, as Grandmaster unlocks for the first time, you claim your spot. Next up: Challenger.

A player who has been too busy climbing to read our posts
We’re doing some stuff to make your ranked experience better, like providing clearer feedback during placements, better matchmaking, more accurate ranks, milestones and meaningful goals regardless of skill, and new rewards for deep and ongoing engagement.

If you want a quick refresher on our previous posts, check out the links below!

Post 1: /dev: Updates to Ranked for 2019 — We started the journey all the way back in April 2018! In this post, we introduced our goals and high-level plans for Ranked 2019 to start a conversation with you.

Post 2: What We Heard on Ranked 2019 — In this post, we summarized what we heard from you about those plans and goals.

Post 3: /dev: Addressing Your Feedback on Ranked for 2019 — In this post, we discussed how we adjusted position ranks based on initial feedback we heard from you.

Post 4: /dev: Next Steps for Position Ranks in 2019 — In this post, we laid out our plan for releasing position ranks: regional previews followed by a broader rollout to all regions worldwide.

Post 5: /dev diary: New Tiers & Placements in Ranked 2019 — In this video, Primus, Thiago, and I detailed the new placement system and our plan for adding Iron and Grandmaster tier.

Post 6: /dev: Top Tier Changes to Ranked for 2019 — In this post, we talked about how the top of the ladder would be affected by the Ranked changes.

Post 7: /dev diary: Rewards and Splits in Ranked 2019 — In this video, we laid out the three-split season and how you’ll earn rewards this season.

Post 8: /dev: More on 2019 Ranked Rewards — In this post, we answered a bunch of questions about split and season rewards.

Post 9: /dev diary: Position Ranks Explained — Here’s the video that accompanies this /dev blog—check it out if you want to know why we’re doing position ranks, how it works, and how we’re rolling it out in stages.

Post 10: /dev: Position Rank Stories — It’s the thing you’re reading right now! Continue on, Summoner.

This one was pretty dense, but thanks for hanging in there. As always, we’re open to your feedback, so share it along with your concerns and comments—or, better yet, hit us up by clicking the Ask Riot button below. We’re looking forward to you trying out all the Ranked changes when the season kicks off on January 24. Thanks for playing, and we’ll see you on the Rift!
Riot Support now has all the info on what’s under the hood, game designers answered a few of your questions around getting into game, and now in the final part of this update, we’ll talk about what we’ve been doing to make matchmaking better in League.

You’ll hear this a lot, but League’s matchmaking should try to balance three things—create fair matches, where appropriate players get their primary position as much as possible, and maintain short queue times. We spent the last two years developing and shipping improvements to matchmaking behind the scenes and we’d like to share some of that data!

One note: since we were able to keep match fairness consistent throughout the year at most skill levels, we’re gonna be focusing on position select and queue times for this update. We heard from you that both of these were in a pretty bad state, so that’s where we wanted to improve, and where we spent most of our development time last year.

Position select
First up—position select. Adding autofill was one of the first steps we took to help with the pretty rough launch of the position select/dynamic queue system in 2016. Autofill massively cut queue times, but we heard from you a lot that the rate you were getting autofilled was too high.

With that in mind, we looked at ways we could try to improve autofill rates. We’ve talked about how important it is as a tradeoff to a position select system in League, but that doesn’t mean it couldn’t be tightened up. We spent 2017 trying to prioritize getting your primary position far more and getting autofilled less. These graphs show NA data, but all regions follow roughly the same pattern.

POSITION ASSIGNMENT, ALL POSITION COMBINATIONS, NA, JANUARY 2016-2018

(a) Position priority – A change to the algorithm so you’d wait a bit longer but get your primary more often.
(b) Autofill – Autofill introduced for all players.
(c) Autofill primary fix – A config change for primary position rates.
(d) Autofill experiments – We ran some tests for a few different versions of autofill to find one that worked best.
(e) Kidnapping algorithm – This is a change to how we form teams. It’s not as nefarious as it sounds.
(f) Shuffling algorithm – This one tries to ensure you get your primary more.

With changes over the last year, hopefully you’re getting your primary up to 90% of the time, regardless of positions. The graph above shows how frequently players got their primary position, secondary position, or were autofilled last year.

When we originally launched position select, if you chose mid primary and support secondary you’d end up mid in about 1 out of every 10 games—not a great “primary” experience. We’ve been working to change that since early 2016. Even with a position combination where getting your secondary is more likely than other combos (which for most servers is mid/support), we tried to make support much “safer” to take as a second option.

POSITION ASSIGNMENT, MID/SUPPORT, NA, JANUARY 2016-2018

(a) Position select launch – Players immediately figure out that support secondary probably means “you’re getting support.” The health of the system degenerates.
(b) Position priority – This feature helps temporarily but eventually degenerates again.
(c) Autofill – Autofill launches, and more players are assigned support.
(d) Autofill primary fix – Mid rates pass support for the first time through a config change aimed at primary position rates.
(e) Autofill experiments – We ran some tests for a few different versions of autofill to find one that worked best.
(f) Xayah and Rakan released – The bot lane duo bounced onto the Rift, and Rakan’s popularity pushed mid/support players to get mid way more often (as many more selected support as their primary! #supportmainsunite)
(g) Autofill test – Config change for autofill.
(h) Kidnapping algorithm – This is a change to how we form teams. Seriously, it’s not that bad.
(i) Zoe released – Many more players picking Zoe temporarily lowered the chances of getting mid. This is pretty standard for any new champion.
(j) Start of 2018 season – Which is basically now.

The graph above shows how frequently you get your primary position, secondary position, or are autofilled in the hardest-to-accommodate case: mid primary, support secondary. We figure if the “worst-case scenario” is still performing pretty well, that’s a decent indication that regardless of what you choose, you should still get your primary in a vast majority of games.

Queue times and “Time to Game”
We had a couple of opportunities throughout the year to lower what we call your “time to game.” This includes anything that happens between hitting “Find Match” and getting into the loading screen—champ select duration, dodges, and queue times. Being stuck in an eight-minute champ select and then having someone dodge at the last minute feels rotten, so here’s what champ select looked like in 2017.

CHAMP SELECT DURATION, ALL REGIONS, 2017

(a) 10 bans system launch – Moving from six alternating bans to 10 simultaneous ones shaved over 30 seconds on average from each champ select.
(b) Simultaneous draft picks launch – Making consecutive picks part of the same phase cut a lot more time.

On top of these feature launches, we released some visual improvements to champ select designed at drawing more attention to when it’s your time to act. We saw unintentional dodges (as a result of not locking in) drop from one-out-of-ten to one-out-of-fifteen with these changes.


As for queue times, being stuck in multiple long queues in a row feels rough, and as our team’s name “Get In Game” suggests… we want to get you into game. In 2016, at the highest levels, some players were waiting literally hours just to play a game of League. Not good.

QUEUE TIMES, ALL REGIONS, 2017

(a) Optimal Operational Parenthesis Solution – Please don’t ask us about this.
(b) Dodge fix – We fixed an edge case where dodges caused players to get stuck in matchmaking.
(c) Kidnapping test – Testing a different kidnapping setup for a month or so…
(d) Kidnapping test off – … and then reverting it to see what impact it had.
(e) Box algorithm – Optimized code for hardware setup to get faster queue pops. Thinking inside the box.
(f) Kidnapping algorithm – This is the same fix mentioned in previous graphs—it also improved time to game.

So compared to the beginning of 2017, queues should feel a lot shorter across the board, only reaching around 4 minutes at worst (with some high-MMR exceptions). Sorry to everyone who takes in-queue toilet breaks.

Alright, just one more graph—let’s rewind a little. As you’ve seen, improving matchmaking is iterative, long-term, and never done. Here are the queue times for the same five days in January (roughly the start of each season) from 2015 to 2018:

QUEUE TIMES, ALL SERVERS, JANUARY 2015-2018

Early 2015: Queue times were okay, but at their worst, they hit around 12+ minutes.
Early 2016: Position select was really inefficient at launch, so some high level players would wait 26 minutes or more just to play one game. Yikes.
Early 2017: Autofill’s introduction, as well as other small fixes, normalized queue times back to 2015 levels.
Early 2018: 2017’s iterative improvements, bug fixes, and config changes have gotten League to the healthiest matchmaking state so far.

So, in short: We know it’s not perfect, but today, you should be in fair matches, with the position that you want more often, as well as not waiting long to get into game. But… what’s next?

Plans for 2018 and beyond
For 2018, we’re considering some crazy ideas. These are in various stages of development ranging from “It’ll probably happen” to “No idea if that’ll actually work.” Here are a few things we’re thinking about.

SUPER REALLY FAST QUEUES?
We’re wondering if it’s possible to have 20 or 30 second queue times for everyone without sacrificing other factors. It might not even be possible, we’re not totally sure yet. But we’ll see if there’s even a small chance of making it happen.

NOOB AND SMURF MMR
We’ve got a new algorithm that’s gone through a few tests that looks like it could get players to an accurate matchmaking rating much more quickly than right now. As a bonus, this can help with getting smurfs to the right places faster. We’ll let you know when this comes out of testing, assuming it plays out the way we expect.

POSITIONAL THINKING
No design for ranked solves every problem. One of the big ones in today’s system is that games are just as challenging skill-wise no matter what position you end up playing. This sucks when you’re just playing out of your comfort zone and double sucks when you get autofilled. We’re looking at a few different ways of solving those issues without creating a ton of exploits. We’re still brainstorming here, so it’s a perfect time to let us know what you think about this problem.

This is the third post of a three-part update on matchmaking in League! Read the rest below:

Part 1: How does matchmaking work? – A much-needed update to the Riot Support article to better represent how matchmaking works in League in 2018.

Part 2: /dev: Matchmaking Real Talk – Answering some of the tough questions around matchmaking, and hopefully dispelling some myths along the way.

Part 3: /dev: Making Matchmaking Better – Take a look behind the scenes at some of the improvements we’ve been making for the last couple of years.
Ask Riot gets a lot of questions about how we decide on your teammates and opponents in League, and we wanted to take some of the frequently asked ones and give them to the designers that work on matchmaking, champion select, position select, and all that good stuff. Let’s dive in:

Why do some games of League feel imbalanced?
When you encounter imbalanced games of League, we generally chalk it down to three major culprits: snowballing, matchmaking uncertainty, and/or perception.

In terms of design, we want League to be a game where getting a small advantage and running with it is one path to victory. Any small successes that are snowballed can determine early leads, and then sometimes the result of the game. Early Pantheon double kills can feel unstoppable without a miracle teamfight, but there’s always itemization and strategic calls that can turn games around from the brink of defeat.


Within the actual systems, most teams have an expected win rate of 50 +/-1%. This means from all the data we have, we think we’ve made a fair match. But we can’t rely purely on the raw data. What if players are playing positions or champions they aren’t familiar with? What if there’s a large discrepancy in MMRs in a normal premade, or a player hasn’t played enough games to get an accurate rating (looking at you, smurfs)? On top of this, there could be personal factors that matchmaking can’t see—lack of sleep, one too many Graggy Ices, that sorta thing.

Depending on how you’re doing, it could just be your perception. Being wrecked is much more visceral than the joy of dominating your opponent, and the really bad moments can unfortunately be more memorable than the great ones.

And sometimes you’ll just have a bad game.

While we know our matchmaking systems are never going to be perfect, and sometimes you (or your opponent) will end up with a 20 minute win, we try everything we can to prevent imbalance before the game has even started, and consider it a huge priority to ensuring League remains competitive.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game Team

Why do I get worse people in my games when I’m on a hot streak and trying to climb?
This is pretty much an urban myth. Mostly.

There’s nothing in the MMR system that forces you to have lower-skill teammates or disproportionately higher-skill opponents. We expect every game you play to have a 50 +/-1% chance of your team destroying the Nexus.

As your MMR goes up, you’ll stop being the “standout” player and your teammates’ skills will be higher. This can also happen to anyone else in the game, which can give the impression that you have “worse” teammates, when really they might just be newcomers to your skill bracket.

Even if it all goes wrong and you feel like your teammates have been letting you down, you can make use of systems like demotion protection and promo helper to prevent you from being punished for a few “unlucky” games. We think this is the right tradeoff compared to having a volatile rank—being demoted feels rough, and reaching a tier should be a decent indication that you can play at that level.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game Team

Why do I come up against high-ranked players in unranked games?
MMRs between queues aren’t connected. This means occasionally high-MMR ranked players have lower MMRs in normals.

Our perspective on the queues is that ranked should continue to be where you put on your tryhard pants. In contrast, unranked queues should be a place to play and experiment in a less intense competitive setting. The reason the MMRs aren’t linked is that introducing a consistent connection could change the competitive intent of each queue.

For example, if having a higher ranked MMR meant you would be placed higher in normals, it could put more pressure on you to have a “ranked mentality” in all queues. Beyond this, we want to provide an outlet for experimentation and lower stakes through unranked modes. A player who tries super hard in ranked may play with their casual friends and try goofy strats in normals in a way that means they perform at a lower level.

That said, we think there’s room for improvement here. We’re looking into some options, such as having better algorithms to get players to more accurate MMRs in a shorter time, or potentially “splashing” small amounts of MMR from ranked into normals without a direct link between the two.

— Riot Socrates, Designer, Meta Game Systems

Why do I get matched with unranked players if I’m Bronze/Silver/Gold?
When players first start playing ranked, they have to go through a period of placement games where we try to figure out how good they are. We have to place them against players we already have a lot of information about to get the most accurate placement. Since most players are Silver and below, we tend to start looking in Silver and move them up or down based on their performance.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

Why do you continue to match me with players I block/mute/report?
Short answer: It would literally break matchmaking if we didn’t.

Imagine you’re Challenger in KR (congrats) and you come up against Faker in midlane. He dumpsters you, and your plays show up in a TOP FAILS montage on the Inven frontpage. Next time you see him in solo queue, you rage-check a box that says “don’t match me with this player.” Now imagine 100 more people do that this week.


Matchmaking would have to look at players much further from your MMR because it’s unable to fill a lobby, your queue time would increase, and you’d end up being on consistently less-good teams. Players end up like a bunch of magnets constantly repelling each other—if enough of them misuse a feature like this (and it wouldn’t take many!), then fair matches would end up next-to-impossible to find.

— Riot Draggles, Comms Strategist, Meta Game Systems

Why does the system not use KDA and other similar stats instead of Elo/MMR systems?
League of Legends is a team game and teams win or lose games together. We don’t want to impose an arbitrary system of rating players on performance because then the best way to beat that system would probably be to get good scorelines, rather than helping the team win.

We want to reward good play that ultimately leads to a win, no matter how small their impact may seem. Supports sacrificing themselves to save their ADC, tanks zoning three enemies in a teamfight, or assassins diving the backline to blow up the carry are all examples of plays that may not make a great statline but help get the W. Some champions have unique playstyles (think Singed/Nunu) that would be tough to measure, and their mains may not be graded appropriately based on their play.

You should be rewarded for different types of achievement and impact, so we’re always looking at new systems to surface cool in-game plays (like vision score or unique missions) that aren’t necessarily reflected in KDA or win/loss ratios. We also want to try and give you ways to express mastery across different positions. What sorts of different ways would you like to see progression in League? Let us know!

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

Why can’t I see my MMR?
We talked about this when we first released the Leagues system (holy crap, five years ago now). tl;dr: Showing MMR has a lot of downsides in a team-based game like League.

On the plus side, MMR is a more accurate summation of where you are in relation to other players across the entire server, and showing it can be more reassuring that the match you’re in is fair when scouting your opponents out before a game.


Using MMR as the sole mark of achievement in League punishes half of the playerbase as their MMR will decline over the course of the season, which sucks because most of them are gradually getting better at the game—but so is everyone else around them.

Ranked tiers also provide contextual progression and status. Knowing you’re “a Gold player” as opposed to “a 1650 MMR player” or “120,353 on the server” gives you clearer targets to work towards. Moving from 1595 to 1600 MMR is probably not that compelling, but promoting from Silver I to Gold V should give you the knowledge that you’re truly improving.

The Leagues system also gives you a bit of protection from losing a bunch of games in a row and having your MMR plummet as a result. Using demotion protection and promo helper, you can get a few extra lives in rare cases of not getting your preferred position for a few games or just being in a slump. Ranked anxiety is real, and we know there can be a lot of pressure, so having meaningful progression that feels good should hopefully break down a few of those barriers.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

I’m in Master/Challenger and my MMR seems to be going down. One day I have favourable LP gains and the next I don’t. What’s going on here?
LP gains and losses are also based on your skill estimation compared to the players around you. This becomes most apparent at the Master/Challenger level, where there are only a few players and the competition for spots becomes very contentious. If you take a break from playing for a bit, the MMRs of the people around you are still changing, and that can result in notably different LP gains when you return.

For example, let’s say you grind to Challenger and bank games to lock your LP for 10 days, then go on vacation until your banked games run out. While you’re away, your MMR/LP is safe and static, but all those other Challengers (and Masters, and high Diamonds) are still playing games. This tends to slowly increase the average MMR at the high end of the ranked system. So when you come back from your hiatus, your MMR is right where you left it—but now the competition around you is even higher. When you play again, you’ll get lower LP gains and higher losses, as you are now slightly below the average for your ranking, but as you win a few games, those LP changes will return to normal.

— RiotIAmWalrus, Designer, Competitive

We got pretty technical here, but we hope this provided a little more context into matchmaking in League. What other questions do you want answered? Where do you feel we can improve our systems? Let us know in the comments!

This is the second post of a three-part update on matchmaking in League! Read the rest below:

Part 1: How does matchmaking work? – A much-needed update to the Riot Support article to better represent how matchmaking works in League in 2018.

Part 2: /dev: Matchmaking Real Talk – Answering some of the tough questions around matchmaking, and hopefully dispelling some myths along the way.

Part 3: /dev: Making Matchmaking Better (releases next week) – Take a look behind the scenes at some of the improvements we’ve been making for the last couple of years.
If you had walked to the farthest, darkest corner of Riot Games about a year ago, chances are you would have come across a small group of artists huddled together in dim lighting and deep discussion about how to make fire look like paint. The “Annie team” spent a lot of time like that, debating among themselves while wallpapering their part of the building with references and sketches—a madcap studio-within-a-studio hellbent on discovering the perfect method and medium for what was to be Annie’s origin story.

But the spark that started it all occurred long before there was ever a team.

IGNITION
It was 2012, and the first animated login screens appeared in the League client. These 2D graphics, carefully distorted to imitate motion, were an immediate hit with players and became a regular part of every new champion release. Seeing the massive popularity of “mographs” like Diana’s, one art director asked a deceptively simple question: What would one of these looping login screens look like as a long-form, animated story?

It was an intriguing idea, but there was a problem: The motion graphic artists at Riot used completely different technology and techniques than traditionally trained 2D animators. Creating a multi-minute animation would require an entirely new approach to making mographs, one that could extend far beyond the standard single looping shot.

It took some time to find a team wildly enthusiastic enough to attempt something no one at Riot (or maybe anywhere) knew how to do. It took more time to convince Riot—and themselves— that they could actually pull it off. But by the end, they didn’t just learn a new way to make mograph animations. They invented one.

ADDING MORE TO ANNIE
But first, they had to pick a champ.

“Originally, we were gonna do a Zed piece, and then we were thinking about a Miss Fortune one,” says director Anthony “ RiotPastaBomb” Possobon. “But other teams were already working on some ideas for those champs. We wanted to do something with a champion that no one else was really interested in so we wouldn’t overlap with other projects.”

When RiotPastaBomb and the motion graphics team began reviewing the League roster for a main character, Annie wasn’t perceived as a compelling protagonist. She’d made an appearance in a cinematic before, but to many Rioters she wasn’t a major character in the world of Runeterra. Her story was just too simple.

“She was an evil girl, and that’s it,” says RiotPastaBomb.

The team began thinking about how Annie might discover her powers—the initial sparks of a personality equal parts precocious and psychopathic. After a few drafts, they had an outline of Annie’s origin story that would deepen her character and hopefully wow players in a way her backstory never really had before.

Storyboards by Seung Eun Kim
STORYBOARDS BY SEUNG EUN KIM
“We put together a storyboard, then turned it into an animatic with subtitles, using ‘Orb of Winter’ as the backing track to give a sense of the mood,” RiotPastaBomb recalls. “And we got the green light to keep going.”

AN ILLUMINATING EXPLORATION
The team officially began the project by exploring the style and feel they wanted with a mood board, a collection of visual references for everything from shapes and colors to the overall tone and core emotions.

“At first, it’s everything, a ton of just looking for inspiration. Sometimes we use references not even related to the project—just things we’ve seen that we liked, that inspired us, moved us. You may not end up using them, but it gets you started thinking,” says artist Lilit “L i L i t a” Hayrapetyan.

One major thing the team considered in the early stages was lighting. “We actually started with black and white photography,” she continues. “We wanted the lighting to be super dramatic to match the story, so we decided on a lot of contrast, a lot of backlighting.”


Of course, there’s more to a visual style than just sharp contrasts in lighting. It was important to the team that the visuals didn’t just dramatize the tragedy of Annie’s origin, but matched who she was as a character: an imaginative child. Early exploration kept coming back to fluid, slightly surreal visuals and clouded, shifting forms—a kind of constant fog mixing memory, imagination, and reality.

But what would a world woven from the mind and magic of an eight-year-old girl actually look like?

LUCID DREAMING
They found it in a dream. Well—not their dream, but Annie’s.

“Originally, we had the idea that there would be the main story, and then a dream sequence, or a flashback in memory,” says artist Ke “Keboom” Swaab. One particular drawing of Annie and her sister running through that dreamy landscape, a cross between an impressionist painting and stylized graphic design, captured the team’s imagination (another version of the scene made it into the League artbook).

“We could establish a unique style for memory, and different style for reality,” says Keboom.


But as the team continued to explore the two visual styles, the conversation shifted to combining them into one unified aesthetic for the whole animation. Keboom tried her hand at another piece of concept art to capture what that might look like.


The painting embodied everything they had been exploring. The team was in love. But when it came to its viability as a style for a full animation, they had their doubts.

“It’s very idealistic,” says Keboom. Incorporating both the aesthetic of the dream sequence—with its graphic, vibrant, and childlike lines—and the more photorealistic, carefully lighted reality of earlier explorations would be extremely tricky, if not totally impractical.

There was also the small problem of the team itself. It was unrealistic to think they could hand-paint every frame in this style—a task that would take hundreds of trained illustrators/animators—with a single-digit team that included exactly zero. “But we just loved the painterly, watercolor look,” says L i L i t a. They weren’t ready to give up just yet.

If the team wanted to make the mograph appear hand-painted with only a few hands to do it, they would have to work a little magic of their own—to create something that looked like a painting, but moved like an animation.

PYROTECHNICS AND FAIRY-TALE FIRE
“We needed to know how to make paint move, and we needed to know how to make fire, paint,” says RiotPastaBomb.

“I started by going to YouTube and picked a few fires,” says artist Jose “Come2Papa” Martin. He passed them through a filter in Adobe After Effects, trying various combinations of frame rate and brush sizes until the flickering flames began to (very roughly) approximate the look of paint.


Come2Papa continued to experiment with filtering to confirm how closely he could produce the particular style the team had come to refer to as “painterly.” It ended up working great—for about 80% of a given scene. What the filter couldn’t do was replicate that last 20%: the precise brushstrokes of a real artist and the key to making it look truly hand-painted.

“It can only apply the ‘brushstrokes’ arbitrarily,” explains L i L i t a. The filter reduced the total amount of manual labor required, but it would still be necessary to incorporate a step where the artists manually directed the motion on-screen rather than leave it random.

And some sequences would require more than just direction. While it was easy enough to pass a sourced video of rushing water through the filter and get a good foundation for a river environment, more specific sequences—like a burst of flame in the palm of a hand—required full 3D simulation before ever using the filter to render it in the 2D, painterly style.

The team’s solution was to develop a hybrid 2D/3D process, and with it, a new take on Annie’s pyrokinesis.

“Her fire doesn’t look dangerous to me,” says L i L i t a. “It’s these curly, beautiful lines—it’s a fairy-tale fire.”
“HER FIRE DOESN’T LOOK DANGEROUS TO ME,” SAYS L I L I T A. “IT’S THESE CURLY, BEAUTIFUL LINES—IT’S A FAIRY-TALE FIRE.”
The newfound process was producing fantastic results when working with fire. Now it was time to test a full scene.

First, the team created an environment made from a composite image of still photographs. Then they added an illustration of Annie, color-corrected, and used the custom filter to produce the hand-painted, fairy-tale look. Finally, they manually added small touches to make it feel more three-dimensional: a combination of bigger and smaller brushes for the textures, shading and lighting.

It looked something like this:


“This test gave us confidence that we could achieve the style we wanted in the end, even with a team of only five people,” says RiotPastaBomb

But when it came to facial animation—critical for Annie to give an emotional and realistic “performance”—the team struggled hard.

THE DEVIL’S IN THE DETAILS
“First we tried motion capture, using those capture points to animate a 2D face,” says RiotPastaBomb.


Just as the filter was developed to make up for a lack of illustrators, motion capture would allow the team to animate without animators—or a third dimension. If the team could mirror (or at least mimic) muscles, they could work entirely in 2D. But it just didn’t look life-life, and in some cases, it was downright weird.

“Then we thought, maybe partial 3D?” says RiotPastaBomb. They tried mapping the 2D texture to a 3D “mannequin face,” keeping the animation mostly 2D, but venturing into 3D for key moments that required it.

But that had its own issues.

“It was so freaking difficult just to turn Annie’s face without it looking weird,” says RiotPastaBomb. “We’re talking five different assets. But, silver lining: We figured out how to do hair—which normally is very tricky in 3D—entirely as 2D assets, all done with distortion in After Effects.” Another silver lining: Annie’s dress ended up working like that as well.

The problem was that it was incredibly difficult to always animate Annie’s face the same way. “Because it wasn’t a true 3D model, where you have a single, actual geometry that will always be that way, every angle and every shift in lighting changed how things looked,” RiotPastaBomb explains. It was impossible to know how Annie should look from every viewpoint.

The team was torn. 3D would make everything “perfect” and establish consistency in the animation. But paint by nature is not a perfectly consistent medium; to look hand-painted, it would need to look somewhat imperfect.

In the end, the team decided on a mix of everything they had explored so far: 3D to achieve the initial consistency in animation, and 2D to capture the nuances of a painted image. The custom filter to produce a painterly foundation, and painting and shading by hand for the final details. A perfectly imperfect blend of the real and the fantastic—and one that was unmistakably made for Annie.


It’s taken months of exploration and a full year of storyboarding, 3D modeling, 2D texturing, filtering, cel shading, hand-painting, and animating to bring Annie’s origin to life. The tech has come a long way from login screens and the team has finished an animation that was as much a personal journey as an experiment in motion graphics.

But for Annie, it’s just her beginning.

For an extended inside look at the team’s process in action, check out the behind the scenes video.
Teamfight Tactics has been out for a little over three months now, and we’ve nearly reached the end of our first set. Time has flown by so fast, and we can’t wait to show you what’s coming in Set 2: Rise of the Elements. But before the new set hits PBE, we wanted to discuss some of the things we’ve learned in our first three months and how we’re taking those learnings forward into the future.

We’re going to go pretty in-depth today, so here’s a quick summary:
We want to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces.
You can hold us accountable to higher standards of balance so that a wider variety of comps can win in any given patch.
We’re aiming for less frustrating and fewer overall disables.
We’re going to have more soft counters than hard counters, especially between traits.
Rate of change was overall a bit high, so expect B-patches to only be used to nerf strong outliers.
Bugs are bad, and we’re going to take more time to make sure we deliver a game with less issues.
We want getting 4th place or higher to always feel like a win, so we’re changing it so you always earn LP for a top-half finish.
Good Random vs Bad Random
02_Hextech
Randomness is always going to be a hot topic when discussing TFT. At a high-level, Set 1 reaffirmed to us that TFT is about how you play around the randomness presented to you through the store, item drops, and various effects in game that cause variance. We still strongly believe that utilizing randomness in the correct way creates a wider variety of experiences, which leads to more replayability. In addition, one of the ways players can express skill is through knowing how to adapt to the many possible outcomes that can occur.

That being said, we certainly learned a lot about where inserting variance worked and was received well and where it wasn’t.

For example, two-piece Imperial (most commonly with a Darius and Draven) was a very random effect that boiled down to a coin flip on whether or not your most important carry would do double damage. We found this fit into acceptable random because you opted into the risk, and it was fairly easy to predict the possible outcomes.

The counter proposals here are Phantom and Hextech, which were our most controversial traits. Many players had a very real negative reaction to their most important champion losing all three of their items or being set to 100 HP with nothing they could really do about it. Phantom in particular did achieve our goal of creating exciting moments and chances for you to win fights you might not normally win, but it did so in a way that was likely too costly for the overall experience.

So as Set 1 went on, we made improvements by moving towards more controlled randomness. For example, we revamped the item distribution system so that the outcomes were more controlled than before while also opening up a wider variety of potential outcomes. We saw this lead to a more fair and more exciting experience. We did something similar with Thieves Gloves, where instead of simply giving the champion any random two items, we created an extremely controlled list and limited where the power can show up at various stages in the game. Again, we believe this led to positive results.

With all that said, we’ll be continuing the trend of trying to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces in Set 2.

Champion Balance & Design
03_Akali
Honestly, this section could be an entire article by itself. Our understanding of what makes a good champion in TFT and what balance qualities they should have has increased exponentially since TFT launched. Let’s try to keep it shorter and discuss some of the most key things we learned though.

Trait tax shouldn’t be as severe: We saw pretty early on with champions like Fiora, Lissandra, and Mordekaiser that having champions who were intended to be bad because they enabled very powerful traits just didn’t pan out. It also limited the types of comps people were willing to run since it meant having to use these less-than-ideal champions. Few people enjoyed having to carry around a bad Mordekaiser just to enable Phantom. It’s okay for them to be less powerful, but not to the degree we launched with.

Even bad champs should have a fantasy: Champions that weren’t the obvious powerhouses were and still are bound to happen—this is fine. But those champions need something to aspire to in the right conditions. Katarina was the best example of this: When given the right items, she could carry the game for you, despite being generally weak. Three-star Veigar was another big one. We aim to create more examples like this in Set 2.

Champions shouldn’t be overloaded: Certain champions simply had too much going on in their kits in Set 1. Pantheon’s spell had a stun, AoE percentage health damage, and a built-in Morello. Akali’s spells only cost 25 mana and were allowed to crit without a Jeweled Gauntlet. Shyvana got a free Dragon’s Claw from her trait, a free Red Buff on her autos, tons of AD, and a burn effect. In all of these cases, the champs had more effects and rules than they needed to. We’re going to keep this more in check for Set 2.

One last note worth bringing up is that balance wasn’t as good as it could’ve been across the patches. We learned that even something as small as 0.05 attack speed or 50 starting HP can make a huge difference. Over the course of Set 1 we tried a variety of tactics—such as nerfing multiple aspects, a single aspect in a big way, or a single aspect in a small way—and we learned what works and what swings things too far. So in Set 2, hold us to an even higher standard for balancing the game so that a wider variety of comps can win in a given patch.

Disabling Effects
04_Freljord
We already knew this going into TFT, but abilities that disable your champions are perceived to be less fun. When designing abilities in League, we’ve seen a pretty visceral reaction when they cause a loss of control or inhibit your ability to perform expected actions. In TFT, Glacial initially had some very strong reactions from people who said it was no fun to have your army just frozen in place. However, we knew that this was acceptable because we need disabling abilities in TFT as outlets to damage, otherwise the game simply becomes who wields the biggest damage cannon.

That being said, there are a couple areas we know we can improve on. For starters, we looked back and agree that we ended up with too many disables. Demon, Glacial, Hextech, Phantom, Hush, Cursed Blade, Swordbreaker, Zephyr, Leona, Ashe, Sejuani, Gnar, Kennen, and more… it was too easy to get your army in a state of “I don’t get to play.” Because of this, we will be aiming for less disables overall in Set 2. (Important here, we said less. Not none)

We also learned what types of disables worked and what types didn’t. For example, pre-changed Demon was extremely painful, since it prevented most champions from ever living out their fantasies. Once you got hit once, it was probably over since you lost ALL your mana. New Demon and Hush worked much better—while they did disable you, there was the hope that they’d wear off, or you could still gather enough mana to cast your spell. Predictability also played a big part here. Zephyr ended up in a good spot even though it disabled a character for six seconds (a much stronger effect than Hextech) because it was predictable and could be played around. You can expect to see more disables like these in the future.

Hard Counters vs Soft Counters
05_Yordles
Early on in Set 1, we believed that having hard counters was the best design choice for TFT. Dragons had 100% magic immunity as a hard counter to spells, Grievous Wounds blocked 100% of healing as a counter to healing effects, and Wild/Rapidfire Cannon made your attacks undodgeable as a counter to Yordles. (Poor poor Yordles.) In all of these cases, it led to some pretty extreme meta situations where the things being countered were considered to be not viable options by many players. Yordles in particular pretty much always struggled to find a good spot, even with the introduction of Mittens.

In all of the above cases, we saw much more success when we pivoted to a softer counter. When Grievous Wounds became 80% heal reduction (which is still REALLY strong), we saw healing effects being used more, leading to a wider variety of viable strategies and builds, since players could still get some value from Bloodthirsters and Hextech Gunblades.

There was also the case of “general counters,” which we define as something that is just universally good against everything. Noble became a general counter when it swapped from giving armor to giving armor and magic resist. The only way to counter Nobles was the new Void trait, which had the same quality of being just generally strong in all cases. True damage as a whole fits this as well. General counters are usually too good, and we’re going to be moving away from them.

When Set 2 launches, you will notice that the traits are more in the soft counter space. In addition, we’ll be making some changes to the items as well to shift them into a soft counter space in a future patch after Set 2 launches.

Expansion Content in Set 1
06_TFT_Items
With Set 1, we released quite a few pieces of what we call “expansion content,” which is stuff that expands the set beyond its initial launch state. This included:

Twisted Fate in 9.14
The four Hextech champions in 9.16
Pantheon in 9.17
Item system revamp & Neeko’s Help in 9.18
Kai’Sa and Sparring Gloves in 9.19
From what we saw, there were some pretty clear takeaways. Having a big piece of expansion in almost every patch contributed to the feeling that the rate of change was too high. In addition, the smaller drops like Twisted Fate and Pantheon were much less successful at generating excitement, where as the larger drops like Hextech and the item system revamp did a much better job.

07_Hextech_Champs
As for champions, we learned that…

The 50 champs we launched with was a bit small, especially in the 1-cost area. When we launched Twisted Fate, we swapped Elise to a 1-cost, which led to a better early game state, but TF himself was also a bit of a disappointment at the time.
Adding a new trait was very exciting (ignoring the quality of Hextech itself), though ramping from 51 to 55 champs was a very large change to the feel of the game. It was immediately noticeable how much more difficult it was to two- and three-star champions.
Adding the two 5-cost champs at the end was probably not great, since the change in difficulty in chasing legendaries changed so dramatically so quickly. Noble was the biggest victim of this, with Kayle going from a pretty reliable chase to almost luck based—which was a pretty big nerf to the trait. We want legendary champions to be exciting capstones to late game builds that feel great when you find them. If they’re too difficult to find, then you stop trying to chase them.
With all that in mind, for Set 2 we are going to try shipping less total content patches, but each one will be larger. Our current thinking is 3-4 content patches over the course of the set. Our goal is for each of these drops to bring an exciting and meaningful change.

B-Patches & Rate of Change
08_TFT_Board
One of the things we dealt with a lot in Set 1 was, “What is the right amount of change for the game?” Early on we had B-patches and hotfixes out of necessity—we had to address things that needed to change very quickly, including bug fixes and rougher early designs. However, we saw some frustration with this, with some players feeling like it wasn’t worth investing in the game and learning the meta: Why invest deeply in the game if it was just going to change in a few days?

One of the key contributors to this was the size of the B-patches, which sometimes changed as many as 15-20 parts of the game in a single patch. We felt this was just too much change for most players to deal with.

So in the second half of Set 1, we moved away from B-patches. We drew a hard line that unless it was a major game-breaking issue, we weren’t going to hot fix it. (For example, we did not hotfix Void-Assassin in 9.18, but we did hotfix Titanic Hydra in 9.19.) We learned that there were positives to this approach in that we would see the meta shift as the weeks went on, and players began to make counter comps to the popular comps. We want to see more of this. However, this method wasn’t without frustration either, as any time something was even slightly off balance (Void-Assassin in 9.18, Infinity Edge in 9.19), engaged players were stuck with it for two weeks, leading to what felt like a stale meta.

Based on what we gathered from Set 1, we’re going to take a different approach for Set 2. The first patch of Set 2 will likely have a bigger B-patch to resolve any post-ship issues, but after that we will limit B-patches to be extremely small and only for nerfing strong outliers. This allows us to deal with some of the most extreme cases while slowing down the overall rate of change. Hopefully this will lead to a more stable Set 2, but also a less stuck one.

Bugs!
09_Bugs
This one is a bit of an obvious learning, but we want to discuss it because frankly it’s very important. Bugs are bad. We shouldn’t have bugs. Due to the rapid pace of building TFT and the content in each patch, we didn’t hit the quality bar we would have liked to, which led to days of ranked being disabled, hidden exploits, and other not great experiences.

We still have a long way to go to get everything up to the bar we think you should expect of us. But we’re committed to getting there. One thing we’re doing in Set 2 is taking a little more time to QA when we add new content. Delaying the new items from patch 9.18 to 9.19 was a step in the right direction, as it allowed us to have far fewer bugs with the new items (though admittedly we still didn’t get them all).

For Set 2, expect us to take our time to make sure we do a better job at delivering a game with less issues.

Other Things We Learned
10_TFT_Buddies
There’s a lot more we can discuss, but this is a long article, so let’s wrap up with a few final learnings.

With traits, we found that adding the extremely unlikely chase options—like nine Blademasters and nine Sorcerers—created some extremely exciting moments for players to chase after and some memorable moments when you managed to nail it. Watching a Karthus one-shot an entire team with the nine-piece Sorcerer bonus was a personal highlight for me! We’ll continue to add these types of chases in Set 2.

We also learned a lot about player damage and game pacing. When we launched, games were over far too quickly and it was almost impossible to make it to late game. After some adjustments, we ended up in a state where late game was all that mattered because the early game wasn’t doing enough. The relationship between available resources and player damage was also important, as when we added the new item distribution system, we saw a shift back to quicker games. While we learned a lot here, we don’t think we’ve gotten to the ideal state, so we’ll be making more adjustments to the pace of the game as we continue into Set 2.

Finally with our Ranked system, we’ve seen some things that work and some that don’t. We’re going to continue to make adjustments to the system as we move forward, but one change coming in Set 2 is that, no matter the conditions, getting 4th or higher should feel like a win. Losing LP when getting 4th (or in extremely rare cases, 3rd) feels real bad. So we’re changing it so that no matter what, you can’t lose LP if you place 4th or higher.

So there ya go. We learned a lot in our Set 1, and we’re so excited for you to get your hands on Set 2: Rise of the Elements!