In patch 12.10, we will be introducing some changes to increase the durability of every champion on the roster to reduce the overall amount of damage in League. We’re looking to accomplish this by increasing the following stats:

Base Health
Health per Level
Armor per Level
Magic Resist per Level
This increase in durability also necessitates some adjustments to the surrounding systems of the rift to make sure they are correctly tuned, relative to the increased durability. These include nerfs to sustain, and buffs to Baron, Turrets, and mana regeneration. Now, before we dive deeper into what to expect with this update, let’s look at how we got here and why we believe higher durability is good for the game.

Why more durability?
Devs and players agree—there is currently too much damage in League. While tons of damage can be fun and exciting, we believe that increasing champions’ defensive stats will be beneficial for letting players showcase their skill by giving them more opportunities for counterplay and to live out their high moments.

Before talking about the changes themselves, we want to reassure you that we aren’t trying to create a meta where there are no kills by 15 minutes into the game. There are actually quite a few things we like in the current state of League. Some pros of lower survivability include: A sizable amount of players enjoy high-kill games, it leads to more exciting pro metas, and it rewards good play with kills which is much more satisfying than just forcing someone to recall. That said, lower survivability also has downsides which outweigh these positives.

Lower survivability leads to game states where squishy carries and supports in particular struggle to have an impact in the game due to being one-shot with low counterplay in too many situations. When you’re dying so fast that it’s difficult to tell what killed you, game clarity takes a hit which leads to frustrating experiences.

On Live, combat can sometimes be overly rewarding when high threat champions only need to use a portion of their kit to secure a kill. Ideally, players should have to play around their champion’s key skill test to hit those satisfying combos (eg. Zed’s triple shuriken). Long term, we think poor skill tests make playing your favorite champions a lot less satisfying.

Another issue we’ve noticed with lower survivability is that it creates abrupt and confusing teamfights and skirmishes when champions die so quickly. Shorter teamfights are hard to follow, limit the opportunities players have to make smart decisions/showcase their skills, and ultimately aren’t living up to the epic clash of legends fantasy team fights should be delivering on. Since teamfights are one of the most enjoyable parts of League, we want to create more opportunities for players to engage in those high energy, game-changing 5v5’s.

Patch 12.10–What to Expect
We still think that League is at its best with fast-paced, high intensity combat; but now that it’s gone too far in that direction we need to rein it back a bit. We don’t think any particular champions, items, or systems are out of line (even if they may have contributed to the root cause), which is why we’re increasing durability across the board, rather than removing or toning down specific offensive sources.

Here is a TLDR of what you can expect in your games with the Champion Durability Update:

Players will feel that their champions are dealing and taking less damage
Burst champions must commit more resources or be further ahead to get quick kills
Bigger windows of opportunity for counterplay
Skirmishes and teamfights will last longer
Champion durability isn’t the only thing we’ll be adjusting. Increasing overall durability has a lot of knock-on effects. Notably, sustain becomes more powerful in preventing champions from reaching burst thresholds, so we are reducing sustain across the board. Other side-effects we're looking at include map elements (Baron and Turrets) doing less damage, champions running out of mana more frequently, and scaling champions staying alive more often to reach their win conditions. We’ve proactively adjusted some of the more well-known variables over the past few patches and will continue to do so post-launch as they emerge.

One subset of champions that will certainly be affected are burst damage dealers (not necessarily just assassins). We believe that champions should still be able to be burst killed, especially when out of position or playing poorly. High burst champions doing reasonably well should still be able to 100-0 squishy champions with their full kit if they succeeded in passing their core skill test. If these champions are extremely ahead (multiple levels and/or thousands of gold), then we think it is reasonable for them to kill a champion with only part of their kit, only because they have passed their core skill test many times. For any given amount of lead, burst champs will have to press one or two more buttons than before in order to secure 100-0 kills. Our intent with this update isn’t to overnerf burst champions, so we’ll be keeping an eye on them to make sure they land in a healthy spot.

Monitoring the Launch
With these sweeping durability changes coming to the rift, we’ll be keeping a very close eye on how they play out. We don’t want to move to a meta where tanks become unkillable, burst champions are rendered obsolete, or where Pro Play becomes a snoozefest, so we’ll be monitoring role and champion balance extra carefully over the next few weeks. Our goal is to hit a sweet spot where all classes are viable, tactical combat has good pacing allowing for moments of skill expression, and the balance of snowballing and scaling are in healthy states.

We’re excited to launch these changes in patch 12.10 and looking forward to seeing them come to life. Thanks for continuing to play with us and raising your concerns. Looking forward to seeing you on the rift!
Hi everyone! Riot GalaxySmash here to talk with you about GAT, or the Game Analysis Team. League is pretty complex to say the least, and with new ideas always in the making, sometimes it's not easy to anticipate all the ways a single change might affect the entire game. That's where GAT comes in! Our job is basically to help designers understand how their new content fits in with the rest of League so that it ships as closely to our goals as possible. We're like the Yuumi on everyone's shoulders, zooming around and supporting them so they can achieve their design goals. So what does that actually look like? Well, I'm glad you asked! I’ll explain by busting some of GAT’s most common myths!

Myth #1: GAT's job is to test the live game
While it's true that GAT does a lot of things to validate existing content, we actually spend most of our time during the design phase, before something goes live! For example, with Crown of the Shattered Queen, as soon as we understood the designer's main goal to create a “specifically defensive mage mythic”, we suggested additional ones like making it "purchasable by a wide variety of users'', and ensuring that it doesn’t “nullify the mage class’s core weakness of being squishy". Having these recommendations early on helped the designer prototype with more specific goals in mind. Later, once they had an early design, we generated test cases to help them understand risks and outputs of the item in ways they might not have anticipated before, like Crown potentially replacing Everfrost as the go-to defensive mage mythic rather than the two occupying different niches. It's a very collaborative and iterative process, and we often go through many cycles before something ever ships!


Myth #2: GAT only does playtesting
Although playtesting is a huge and essential part of our work, we use many other tools to analyze game content as well! This is especially important since playtesting has limitations. There are only so many hours in a day to run playtests, and sometimes test cases conflict and can't be done in the same game (like if there are two new junglers to test but we don't want to play them against each other). One of the most tried and true methods we use instead is to crunch some numbers. For example, when a designer works on a new champion, we run the math on their counterparts in live so we can tune them to be relatively similar in power. Like when Qiyana was in development, we looked at existing assassins' total damage outputs to get a ballpark estimate, but we also took into consideration how champions like Zed have single-target burst combos whereas Qiyana's would be mostly AoE. We use spreadsheets (lots and lots of spreadsheets) to compare and contextualize all the data, and then combine it with other forms of more qualitative feedback from playtesting and theorycrafting to provide holistic analysis.


Myth #3. You have to be Masters or higher to join GAT
You might have also heard that many of GAT's members are highly ranked in League, and it's true, but it's not a hard requirement for the job! The reason we have so many Masters or higher players on the team today is that the skills we need for the job are usually things you develop from playing League a lot, such as a deep understanding of past and present metas, the ability to play different roles really well, and how quickly you can synthesize lots of game information at once. Another reason is that, many times, the outlier mechanics or optimizations we need to test are ones that highly skilled players are more likely to take advantage of. And in addition to individual depth of knowledge, we also try to also make sure that our team encompasses a broad set of playstyles and experiences. For example, some of us have our strengths in macro decision-making around the map, while others are more expert in drafting and creating team compositions. Together, we make a cohesive Game Analysis Team and cover as many scenarios as we can!

Hopefully that clears up a lot of the mystery around GAT! Just as our name implies, we're a team that does game analysis, and we have a lot of tools to help us do that effectively. And while our job is to support our designers early on, we can't say we're perfect; it's also thanks to players like you who provide awesome feedback and help League of Legends continue to evolve and grow.

What are some ways you'd analyze new game content? We'd love to hear your ideas! See ya on the Rift :D
Howdy folks, Barackprobama here to give you another peek into the Challenges system that will be gracing your monitors in a few patches. As a reminder, Challenges is a new system in League that rewards you for all the impressive activities you participate in and out of game, beyond the ranked system. We think that every game, win or lose, has something worth celebrating! Maybe you pulled off some sick early game jungle invades, maybe you finally hit mastery level 5 on your tenth assassin, or maybe you teamed up with some friends and rocked all Freljord champions because Summoner’s Rift is a mode best served cold. League is about much more than just winning and losing and that is what we want to celebrate with Challenges.

Interested in learning more about everything challenges has to offer? Then check out this article.

PBE Progress
Over the course of development and testing on PBE we received an absolutely bonkers amount of feedback from you all on Challenges that led to lots of level-ups. Some of these were usability improvements, like updates to the way Challenges were grouped and sorted or changes to the way the end of game display showed overflows. Others were system changes, like how we greatly simplified the relationship between category and crystal progression. Still others were visual language updates, like increasing the differentiation between ranks (we heard you tell us that Gold should look less like Bronze) or stronger fantasy around certain tokens.

Your feedback has been invaluable and I wanted to once again thank you all for helping make this the best product it can be.

PBE testing will continue up until launch, so if you haven’t had a chance to dig in and provide feedback, you still have a chance-so let us know!

Why Personalization?
One of the important lessons we’ve learned from Ranked is that players enjoy having the ability to showcase their accomplishments. We believe that Challenges will help tell a story of your League experience and your journey to be the very best that no one ever was.

That’s how we ended up with the crystal and its ranks, as a broad representation of just how much you’ve accomplished within Challenges. In addition, tokens and titles allow you to showcase specific things you might be particularly proud of. You can use these new tools to craft your unique identity. So while your crystal may take some serious investment to get to higher levels, there's no reason you can’t share that you’ve won a heapload of games without dying in the meantime.

Here’s a list of a few fun challenges (and titles that you can earn by completing them) that we’re really excited about:

Pop Goes the Poro: Cause a Poro to explode in ARAM and earn the title “Poroyalty”
Give ‘em Shell, Shelly: Take Turrets with Rift Herald (aka Shelly)
Icon of the Rift: Obtain 100 Summoner Icons and you can become “Iconic”
Stacks on Stacks on Stacks: Fully stack Mejai’s Soulstealer before 20 minutes
Superior Supporting: Finish your support quest faster than the opponents
Nashor Slayer: Kill Baron Nashor solo and you can be the “Baron”
Aggressive Positioning: Get multikills after flashing toward an enemy and rock the “Flashy” title
Solo Carry: Deal 40%+ of your team’s champion damage in an ARAM
I don’t want to spoil them all for you now, but we’ll be dropping hints on more Challenges leading up to their release!

Challenges when?
Challenges, including over 300 individual challenges, almost 2700 tokens, and over 100 titles, are set to ship worldwide on patch 12.9, just in time for MSI! We’re really excited to see you sink your teeth into the system and can’t wait to progress alongside you all.
Hi everyone, Riot Phroxzon here. Comebacks have been a pretty spicy topic throughout League’s history and with the addition of Objective Bounties, now seemed like a good opportunity to talk about how we approach designing them.

Why do comeback mechanics exist?
Comeback mechanics allow losing teams an achievable but difficult path back into the game. When tuned correctly, they help to balance snowballing, but it's a very fine line. Leaning too hard in either direction can lead to game states where early leads don’t matter (i.e. when comeback mechanics are too strong), or where comebacks never get to happen (i.e. when snowballing mechanics are too strong). The latter also leads to scaling comps feeling weak, which is relevant but not exactly the same thing.

They also allow winning teams to enjoy feeling more powerful with larger leads. This one's a little counterintuitive, but here's how it works: If we didn't have potent comeback mechanics, we would have to heavily water down snowballing for scaling champs to even get a chance, and you'd never get to experience those early Draven pop-off games. Comeback mechanics also incentivize winning teams to use their leads—wisely. So when your fed Lee Sin gets greedy and starts counterjungling without vision, he'll realize that he probably deserved it when the enemy team cashes in on his 1000g shutdown. (We've all been there once.) On the flip side of the coin, if he sits back and does nothing with his lead, he leaves the door wide open for the enemy team to make plays and catch up.

What makes a good comeback mechanic?
The key is that comebacks have to be earned. You're playing from a disadvantaged state with a 40% or less chance of winning, losing most encounters, and struggling with strategic map movements. A comeback supported by the game’s mechanics needs to feel reasonable to the winning team, despite not being in their favor. It should result from the winning team's misplays (or lack of good plays), and it should never feel like the losing team was granted a free win.

Another way we think about this is that being in a winning state doesn't necessarily mean that you will win. A winning team has earned an advantage, not a victory—they have to play well in order to claim that W. Conversely, losing doesn't mean you will lose. Either way, a good comeback mechanic rewards teams that play well and punishes those that play poorly.

What's top of mind for comeback mechanics right now?
Given that comeback mechanics balance snowballing, we know that it sometimes feels like you're being punished for winning. However, teams that are significantly ahead usually have a lot of agency to prevent or mitigate bounty claims. To claim a champion bounty while behind, you have to kill someone who is significantly stronger than you. With objective bounties, the winning team probably has more vision and map control, plus better items and higher levels to boot. However, fairness in practice matters more than fairness in theory, so we're monitoring and adjusting the system accordingly.

In addition to tuning existing bounties, here are some other things we’re thinking about to strike that balance:

Edge cases. If a player is 0/4 and then gets 2 kills, should they have a bounty? What about if a player is 8/0 but solo carrying their team? Or how about if a team is 4v5 yet winning hard—should Objective Bounties still activate?
Team comps. For example, a full scaling team that’s down 3k against a full early game team could actually be even (or ahead!) and still activate Objective Bounties in their favor today.
Specific champion qualities. It’s much harder to claim a slippery 8/0 Ekko bounty than one on an 8/0 immobile and squishy Ashe. At the same time, Ekko has to risk himself more in order to leverage his lead, whereas Ashe can drive a reliable victory with enough peel (... which also requires a lot of teamwork).
Clearer visualization. In particular, XP leads and dragons are a lot more impactful to bounty activations than they currently seem, whereas players tend to over-prioritize gold leads when determining whether bounties look fair or not.
Comebacks and snowballing mechanics have huge implications on every facet of the game, so we're being extra careful adjusting them as the data becomes clearer. We hear you and are working to make the system understandable, intuitive, and—most importantly—function the way players expect. Thanks as always for playing, and hope to meet you on the Rift. Peace.
OK, we know what you're thinking. Why the heck are we giving fighters EVEN MORE AD next patch?!

The gist of it is that ever since the Preseason 2021 item overhaul, light fighters like Irelia and Xin Zhao have felt a lot more like unpunishable tanky murderers than they really should. When these kinda champs have too much of their power in health and defensive-skewed items, their high-risk high-reward playstyles get washed out and become reliable/low-risk yet still high-reward. They basically become frontliners that can singlehandedly murder you, rather than risky champions who have to be swift and smart going into fights in order to get their sweet, sweet payoffs. At that point, why would you pick Nasus when Riven feels just as durable and has better damage and mobility? (Okay, we're exaggerating a bit here, but you get what we mean.)

An interesting issue in the fighter item space is that a lot of the items are pretty similar, yet the champions and classes they’re meant for are quite diverse. What do Illaoi (a juggernaut), Fiora (a light fighter), and Vi (a diver) all have in common? Honestly, not very much, but they use a lot of the same items and are all called fighters. Last season, that problem got even worse as they all consolidated around a handful of powerful items like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage. Sterak’s made pretty much all fighters good at teamfighting, while Goredrinker did the same plus gave them all huge heals at low health. These subclasses started blending together rather than distinguishing themselves as three separate archetypes. Not all fighters are supposed to be good at teamfighting, and when Sterak’s is making them that way, it can be kinda f-... messed up.

To de-homogenize the system, we considered adding new items tailored specifically for each class. We did a bunch of early explorations for new fighter items and even tried overhauling some existing underused ones. (There were some wild ideas like making Silvermere something like the old Sword of the Occult, and a killed-in-the-box version of Maw that would grant invulnerability). These explorations were fun and interesting, but we came to realize that this was like building on a shaky foundation. Before adding anything, we needed to make sure that no item in the current system is a default item of EVERY subclass. Each subclass also needs to have exciting items that reasonably cover their needs. And last but not least, for the long-term health of the fighter class at large, we had to ensure that no items break down their subclass's weaknesses. Once we have those fundamentals down, maybe then we can consider adding new items if necessary.

With all of this in mind, we determined that the single most impactful thing we could do was to push Sterak's out of being a default option for every fighter everywhere. It should be a strong anti-burst teamfight option for juggernauts like Darius, whereas champions like Viego or Master Yi shouldn't get access to that without some serious tradeoffs. Just like how we weren’t comfortable with juggernauts getting a dash using ol’ dashy Stridebreaker, we aren’t comfortable giving light fighters the durability they’re currently getting with Sterak’s Gage.

These kinds of characters do need some defensive options though, and for that, we're moving Death’s Dance back toward hybrid physical/magic damage reduction. The reason we chose Death’s Dance is that the item requires fighters to actually deal damage in order to survive the bleed. They can’t just sit on the front line and soak damage, happy as a clam, leisurely waiting for the right opportunity to go in; unless they fight with finesse, Death's Dance won't save them.

Outside of that, we’ve shifted some other item stats around to make sure that light fighters don’t incidentally stack health just by building their damage items. Risky characters should be building offensive tools that open them to death when they play poorly, so those items have to be powerful and tempting to purchase. Not every fighter should be able to use every fighter item in the shop, but every fighter should feel like they have items built for them.

I really do want to note that we’ll be watching this closely and following up on outlier champions or items (whether too strong or too weak!). We’re also keeping an eye on other classes who might poach these items as well. Some overlap is fine, but when a choice item overrides one of their class weaknesses, that’s also no good. We still think there are more spots in the system that need work, but we’d rather we take a good step toward making the current system better than wait until we can change it all at once.
Hi everyone, this is Phroxzon, the Summoners Rift Team’s new design lead! I’m a long time member of the team and have worked on game balance and the last four preseasons. I’m here to write about how Preseason 2022 content has landed.

Chemtech & Hextech Dragons
Let's start off with the new Elemental Rifts and Souls. We’re seeing positive sentiment and are generally happy with the Hextech Rift, but we hear your frustrations around the Chemtech Rift, which we knew would be contentious with its stealth mechanic. In testing, we found that it had great potential for fun and unique high moments like flanking from the fog as a team, but those also came with frustrating tradeoffs. In particular, it can be hard to contest your own jungle and adapt to new default warding positions on the edges of the Chemtech Fog zones. We've added some Scryer's Blooms to defensive locations in the terrain to help address this in patch 12.1 and will keep an eye on how that pans out.

We’ve also observed high levels of frustration around the Chemtech Soul, which may also contribute to negative sentiment towards the terrain. We’re with you that trying to facecheck a team that has Chemtech Soul in the Chemtech Fog is difficult as you’re usually at both a combat strength & vision deficit. We also agree that the Chemtech Soul itself, regardless of the mechanics, is overpowered right now, so we're tapping down on its numbers in 12.2. If we find that the high moments still don't manifest after both of these changes, yet they continue to frustrate players, we're very open to higher scope changes, including reworks.

Objective Bounties
Next is Objective Bounties. On launch, we agreed they were turning on too early when the game was still relatively close, and falling off too late after the losing team had already clawed back some of the deficit. They also had deactivation timers that would reset anytime an objective with an active bounty was engaged, which led to some pretty extreme gold swings when teams chain-secured objectives without letting the bounty status reset. Thanks to all your feedback and game data, we were able to stabilize the system relatively quickly. (The first hour that the feature went live gave us more information than we could produce with internal testing in 200 years!)

We’ve also received feedback that Objective Bounties can feel like they punish a team for winning. While winning teams are, by definition, disfavored by comeback mechanics, we don’t believe it’s guaranteed that a losing team will claim an objective bounty. With post-launch balancing in place, the current dynamic seems appropriate: If the winning team plays better, they keep bounty claims to a minimum, and If the losing team plays better, they claim the bounties and use them as a springboard to get back into the game. While we’re still fine tuning the balance here, we’re optimistic about this feature for the long term: It increases the number of available strategies when behind, rewards creativity with macro movements, and encourages the losing team to rally around a plan rather than give up.

Runes, Summoner Spells, & Items
We also changed some runes since preseason launched. Lethal Tempo has, despite the 11.24 nerfs, still skewed some melee power curves too heavily towards early game, so patch 12.2 will give it a more scaling profile. Glacial Augment has landed in a pretty good spot for melee users, but we hope to see a few more enchanters pick it over Aery as a more defensive and higher utility option in the long term. First Strike has also landed well for both carries and assassins; it's competing well with other keystones and has opened up a different playstyle for them.

While not part of preseason's initial updates, 12.1's Teleport changes have landed pretty well. We’re seeing relatively minimal changes in winrates & pickrates from early data while still meeting goals for reducing its influence on early skirmishes.

Finally, let’s talk items. Most of the item changes have landed relatively well, with only a few post-launch adjustments needed and with no huge balance outliers. We’re generally happy with them, but as always, we're all ears for your thoughts and will continue to finetune them as needed.

We couldn't have made Preseason 2022 what it is without all your feedback. Please continue to send us your thoughts, ideas, and feedback! Thanks for playing, and I’ll see you on the Rift. Good luck for Season 12! this is Riot Axes here to talk about some upcoming gameplay plans. Preseason 2022 is looking pretty stable and, with the year coming to an end, it’s a good time to talk about a few things on our minds for next year.
 
Short-Term Plans
Most of Preseason 2022 seems to have landed well, with the Hextech Drake in good shape and Objective Bounties looking solid after some adjustments. However, we’re still actively monitoring the Chemtech Drake's terrain and Dragon Soul. Based on our observations, we're shipping a small change in patch 12.1, adding some Scryer’s Bloom plants in locations that should improve the defending team's experience in their own jungle. We knew that the Chemtech Drake would be a spicy addition, and we’ll continue to keep an eye on it.

There are several other areas of the game we're looking at, too. In 12.1, the Teleport Summoner Spell will change significantly. Before 14 minutes, the new Teleport has a longer cooldown and can only target towers. After 14 minutes, its cooldown is reduced and it can target the same objects as it can on live today. In Season 2021, Teleport had way too much early game influence on the outcomes of other lanes. Our goal is to limit that influence and eliminate some problematic edge cases while retaining its ability to stabilize losing lanes, allow mid-to-late game sidelaning, and create opportunities for flanks.

We’re also looking to change some Fighter items. In particular, Sterak’s Gage has become a universal purchase, washing out the differences between bruisers (like Darius or Illaoi) versus light fighters (like Fiora or Irelia). We’re also working on some other items, most likely Maw of Malmortius and Death’s Dance, so that champions moving off Sterak's will have adequate alternatives. We don’t have a ship date for that yet, but it'll definitely be in the first half of 2022.

We're also working on some mid-scope champion adjustments. Our next two projects are Janna and Ahri early in the year, two previously popular champions who have fallen out of favor lately. These will be smaller in scope than the Tahm Kench rework, but still substantial (think Lucian's recent update). This sort of work has gone well so far, so we’re building upon our process for it in the upcoming year, better defining our goals and how we’ll pick targets. We’ll talk more about this in detail soon.

Long-Term Investigations
In the longer term, we’re investigating a couple of larger spaces. To caveat, we're thinking about these spaces very broadly and do not have specific directions for them yet. We're just sharing them so you have an idea of what we're thinking about. We are not promising any particular outcomes.

First off is burst damage. We're analyzing how and when high bursts of damage happen and examining their effects on gameplay. We want to keep the game exciting with high stakes decision-making, but we also want to ensure that fights are reasonably understandable and counterplay is still possible. We're still very early in this investigation, but our current belief is that burst kills happen too quickly and too often. One option we're considering is to reduce damage output under at least a few conditions, most likely in mid-late game against very low defense champions. That's not to say we're deleting assassins or anything—it's a touchy area, and that's why we're taking our time investigating the data. As a friendly reminder, we're not guaranteeing to ship anything in this space yet. Even if we do, the goal isn't to ensure you can never get one-shotted, force a “tank meta”, or any other hyperbolic ideas.

Second, we believe that systems like items and runes provide too much healing and sustain right now. We’ve done some work to address this over the course of 2021, but we’re still meaningfully off from where we want to be. We haven’t settled on the details yet, including whether changes to systemic healing should go out in one large swing or through smaller changes spread out over time. The answer partly depends on what we end up doing with burst damage because the longer it takes to kill champions, the more powerful sustain gets.

That’s it for now! In the future, I’ll generally weigh in on things that are more directional and larger in scope as the new Lead Gameplay Designer. Hope all of you have a happy new year!
Editor's note: While this post isn't about gameplay per se, it does cover how you're rewarded for your time spent playing, as well as your motivations for which modes to play during an event!

Riot Rovient here, letting you know that we’re changing the way points work in League of Legends missions starting with the Debonair event on December 9. This change shouldn't affect your experience much since it's designed to be as close to the current system as possible. Additionally, missions based on specific objectives like "Kill 600 minions" are unchanged.

So what's changing, exactly?
For all League of Legends events moving forward, points will be earned based on how much time you spend playing, rather than how many games you play. We've converted general objectives for some missions based on the average 30 minute PvP Summoner's Rift game.

Weekly Wins Missions: Earn 40 points, Win = 5 points | Loss = 2 points —> Earn 1650 points from playing and winning games. Earn 4 points per minute played, or 6 points per minute played if you win (Rewards 250 Tokens)
Orb Missions: Play 30 games —> Earn 4500 points (Rewards 1 Event Orb + 40 Tokens)
Token Bank Missions: Play a game (Rewards 2-10 Tokens, depending on game mode and win/loss) —> Earn 400 points (Rewards 20 Tokens)
The following changes will also take effect at the same time:

ARAM and Event Game Modes grant 4 points per minute played, or 6 points per minute played if you win. This includes game modes like URF, One for All, and Ultimate Spellbook. In other words, these will grant points at the same rate as PvP SR games.
TFT games will grant 2 points per minute played, or 3 points per minute played if you place in 1st-4th place for your game. While TFT gametime will still count, they shouldn’t be the most efficient way to earn points for League events, so all TFT games will grant them at a 50% rate. We've also added TFT AFK checks for League event missions.
TFT Hyper Roll and Double Up are now eligible for League mission progress! These TFT modes have the same 50% rate as detailed above.
Co-op vs. AI games will grant 1 point per minute played, or 2 points per minute for wins, granting points at 33% of the rate of PvP Summoner's Rift games. This mode still doesn't count toward Token Bank Missions.
Game Mode

Points/Min. Played

Points/Min. Played (Wins)

Summoner's Rift, PvP

4 points

6 points

ARAM

4 points

6 points

Event Game Modes

4 points

6 points

All TFT Modes

2 points (5th-8th place)

3 points (1st-4th place)

Summoner's Rift, Co-op vs. AI

1 point

2 points

Why the change?
In the past, some missions either didn't respect players' time or incentivized playing the shortest games or modes possible.

For example, the mission that required you to "earn 30 points" (where wins = 5 points, losses = 2 points) didn't take your time commitment into consideration at all. That gruelling 45 minute Ranked SR loss? 2 points. That stomp where the enemy team's mid-laner went 0/12 and FF15'd? 5 points. In other words, the points you earned didn't always feel proportional to the time and effort you put into each game.

Other missions also incentivized players to seek the shortest or easiest game modes to earn points quickly. "Play 5 games" encouraged some players to grind TFT or ARAM to farm Tokens as fast as possible. We believe players should never feel like they have to sacrifice their game mode preferences in order to optimize event rewards.

We hear you though, TFT fans—while TFT will still count toward League missions, they will now grant points at a lower rate. This change will shift League event rewards to reward on, well, League games. (And a friendly reminder that TFT has awesome events and battle passes, too!)

Our goal with these changes is to make League missions a more enjoyable, League-focused experience where you get rewarded for playing the games you already love. We’ll be paying close attention to the data during the Debonair event to make adjustments for future events if needed. And, as always, we're listening to your feedback, so let us know what you think!

That’s all for now. I’m excited to get these changes out to you all for an improved missions experience. Good luck out there, players!
!! SPOILERS FOR WORLDS BELOW !!
Tomorrow's the day! The final match for Worlds 2021: MAKE/BREAK is going to be a legendary battle between Damwon Kia (LCK) and Edward Gaming (LPL). There have been so many surprises this year: intense tiebreakers, unexpected outcomes, neverending bloodbaths, and wildcard picks. With Finals front and center (and preseason still marinating on PBE), today's post will be a little less Serious Business than usual.

Here's some data on what we've seen on stage so far and some thoughts from our teams.

A Quick Look at the Meta
Overpowered Champions
One of our balance goals for Worlds is for no champion to get picked/banned in 100% of games. Despite nerfs in 11.16 and 11.18, Lee Sin came closest with 97% presence, but overall, no champ hit the 100% mark this year.

Champion Diversity
Another Worlds balance goal is to ensure high overall champion diversity across the roster. We only count champs with 5% pick/ban presence or higher, as opposed to champs who show up once or twice, to ensure pocket picks aren't misrepresented as viable for any team. Let’s take a look at where we are now going into Finals:

Total champions with 5% presence or more: 62

Top lane: 24

Jungle: 13

Mid: 16

ADC: 10

Support: 13

(For comparison, we've seen 92 champions picked/banned at least once.)

We're seeing an incredibly diverse top lane meta, but some other lanes are barely hitting our minimum target. Notably, ADC only has 10 different 5% champions. Much of this is due to the dominance of Lucian and Miss Fortune, each at 84%. We were excited to see Lucian shift back into bot lane after 11.17 but weren't able to get enough pro play data to get his pro power in the perfect spot. Miss Fortune had no pro presence leading up to Worlds, but we overshot on the power she needed to reach viability and she became more dominant than intended.

We've enjoyed seeing how pro players have innovated so far at Worlds. What are your thoughts on the Worlds meta?

Comments from the team
This last section is a bunch of quotes from members of the Summoner's Rift and Game Analysis Teams! (Yes, we all live in NA.)

"Even though we only had one team make it out of groups and got stomped in quarters, I'm pretty proud of NA. This was technically the most difficult year if we consider that LCK and LPL got extra seeds, yet TL and 100T both went 3-3 in groups and C9 got 3 games with a tiebreaker. Anytime there's more competition between regions, it's fun to watch." —Riot Blizz

"I'm glad we were able to add a couple assassins into the jungle meta with Talon and Qiyana. Even Zed saw a couple games in play-ins, and it was cool to see that completely new picks can rise up for the biggest tournament of the year without being overpowered in solo queue." —RiotMadnessHeroo

"Loved the trading back and forth of novel support picks in DK v T1. Seeing Maokai and Zilean was a breath of fresh air, and reminded us that Beryl and Keria are on top of their game and always innovating." —Riot Sotere

"It was awesome to see DFM pop off. Really exciting to see minor regions ascend. The mega tiebreakers were hype, too." —RiotPhlox

"This has been one of the most exciting Worlds to watch. Really intense games and plenty of comebacks. I think the diversity of champions has been cool to see, especially in jungle and top. Hoping more people pick up Senna as a solid champ into Yuumi (good laning, can get Executioners, and scalability!)" —HydroZenith

"Games have been high octane, and the storylines have also been really fun to follow. Generally, there have been many playstyles that have seemed viable, with top or jungle tanks being a notable exception." —Riot PhRoXzOn (Editor's note: New and reworked tank items coming this preseason!)

"Pocket picks are always exciting, but it's not everyday that a mid laner (Cryin) pulls Annie onto the Worlds stage and instills enough fear to get her banned later in the series!" —Riot Petrie

"There was a lot of skepticism on whether Lucian could be a real bot laner at the highest level. It's an even bigger plus that he brought some enchanters with him, like Lulu and Nami." —Riot Truexy

That's all for now, folks. Tune in tomorrow at 5 AM PDT for the final showdown between DK vs. EDG at LoL Esports!

—The Summoner's Rift Team

PS: The ranked season is ending and preseason is shipping right before the next scheduled Quick Gameplay Thoughts on Nov 19, so we're gonna skip that post. See you in December!
(Don't let the title fool you, this is your biweekly Quick Gameplay Thoughts. We just want to make sure everyone looking for Preseason stuff can find it!)

Preseason 2022 is right around the corner, and we're excited to introduce with it a brand new Inspiration Keystone: First Strike.

A First Look at First Strike
The numbers below were what we shipped to PBE on the 19th. They may already be out of date by the time this article goes live!

Damaging an enemy champion with an attack or ability before they do, or within 0.25s of the start of combat, grants 5 gold and First Strike for 3 seconds, causing your attacks or abilities to deal 12% bonus damage against all champions, and granting (100% melee / 70% Ranged) of bonus damage dealt as gold.

Cooldown: 25-15s (based on level)

First Strike is a new Inspiration Keystone that gives you a huge advantage when you strike an enemy champion first (or, technically, within a very short window time at the start of champion combat). In addition to the extra damage, the extra gold lets you reach item breakpoints at unexpected times. It's designed for players who want more strategic, long-term output from their runes in addition to an immediate mechanical boost.

To get the most out of it, you’ll need to beat your opponents in a test of reactions to get that initial hit and follow up to deal as much damage as possible during the 3-second buff. The rune has been great for artillery champions who can land their spells first, as well as for assassins who do their entire damage output within a short amount of time.

Why the Inspiration Tree?
The Inspiration rune tree is designed to be all about creative tools and rule-bending. Many past Inspiration Keystones haven't really delivered on that and instead became highly specific to particular champion synergies. This didn't really fit the Inspiration theme: You don't feel clever when you're simply doing what's always best for your champion, after all.

You also might notice that we've historically shied away from putting damage options into the Inspiration tree. That's because damage is a fairly standard output—it doesn't really come across as a "rule-bending" optimization. But we're bending our own rules-bending rule a bit here for First Strike because starting combat is a harder decision to make than the choices most of our other damage-focused runes ask of you. Evaluating whether you might initiate a suboptimal fight to ensure First Strike, versus letting an opponent poke it off you and forfeiting the ability to go on the offensive for at least 15 seconds, isn't a straightforward choice. A risk like that needs an equivalent reward, and the increased damage you get is clear and appealing.

We also hope that First Strike will provide value to a broad range of players rather than a specific class. Some will benefit more from the burst damage, others will love it for the gold rewards, and still others will enjoy the intellectual puzzle of figuring out its most strategic use cases. By delivering on multiple angles, we hope to garner appeal to a wider audience.

More Design Thoughts
One concern with First Strike's design is its effects on mindshare. When runes get too hard to track, they risk feeling like minigames that distract you from the "real" game going on. We’ve successfully reduced this in the past by making the rune's early lane interactions less influential (think Fleet Footwork). Because its benefits are granted in gold and percentage damage, much of First Strike's value is deferred until later in the game where getting that first jump on your opponent is crucial, regardless of rune choice.

We also incorporated our learnings from Kleptomancy, which was frustrating for enemy laners who would get poked to death with little opportunity to fight back. Champions who remained loyal to Kleptomancy only did so if they could benefit from it without taking any damage in return, effectively getting to spin the consumables roulette for free every 2 seconds. First Strike not only forces you to engage but also encourages you to commit to your engagements to get any real benefit, especially with its much longer cooldown. It'll give Ezreal a taste of that "Lee Syndrome" when he lands his W - Essence Flux rather than passively poking away with his Q - Mystic Shot the entire time.

Removing Prototype: Omnistone
With the introduction of First Strike, we’re also removing Prototype: Omnistone, which never really found its place in most players’ hearts. Its rules and optimizations were too complex and tinkering with it any further risked making it even harder to master. This left us in a tough spot where we couldn’t safely buff it out of fear that it would become a standard in Pro play. While Prototype: Omnistone was a decent option for champions who didn't really love any one particular Keystone, over time, most have discovered at least a couple that suit them best. And for players who want to opt out of Keystones altogether, Unsealed Spellbook provides extra access to Summoner Spells, allowing users to spend their Runes power budget in a different system entirely.

From the Summoner’s Rift Team, we hope you enjoy this sneak peek into First Strike and the other Preseason 2022 content we've announced this week. There's plenty more in store, and we're constantly monitoring the current state of the game and listening to your feedback to make improvements this preseason and beyond.
Hey all! I’m here to talk to you about the Game Analysis Team (formerly called the playtest team)! We work with the gameplay devs and our role is to understand how players might utilize new content—think champions, items, runes, etc.— and how each change might impact League holistically. I often get asked the question, "Oh, so you just get paid to play games all day?". While playing the game is certainly a big part of the job, what we really do is analyze gameplay, and playtesting is just one of many tools we use (hence the new name). If you care about how we discover the impact of content before we ship it, this is the post for you!

What if, for example, Prowler’s Claw’s active was a blink instead of a dash? Well, early on in development it actually was, and our task was to predict how players might use it months after it shipped. Here’s what that process looked like:

Theorycrafting

First, we thought about which champs would be most oppressive with Prowler's Claw. Pyke immediately came to mind since he could combo the blink active with his E, guaranteeing a stun with little counterplay on a relatively short cooldown.
Playtest

Next, we tried this out in game to see how powerful it would be. We put our resident Challenger tier Pyke player to the test and saw what he could do. (The average rank of the team is somewhere around Diamond 2).
Analysis

After seeing Prowler's Claw in action, we watched game replays and identified moments that showcased its impact, which resulted in multiple scenarios like this:
Deliver Feedback

Finally, we presented our findings to the original designer and discussed the implications. We decided that this combo of abilities removed the counterplay to Pyke’s E too easily without enough drawbacks. (Flash for example at least has a longer cooldown). It also made tracking the movement of the Prowler’s Claw user more difficult, and we predicted that higher skilled players would be much more likely to succeed with this item than the rest of the playerbase. Pyke is just of example of a possible Prowler’s Claw abuser—you could imagine how the blink could be used in other combos like Lee Sin with his ult, or Poppy with her E, but this one was the most demonstrative of the type of gameplay that we want to shield players from. As a result, the designer of Prowler’s Claw changed the blink to a dash.
Rinse and Repeat

After identifying a play pattern that we did not want in the game, we had to try out this new iteration of Prowler's Claw, so we repeated the cycle to consider even more outcomes. Going through this process multiple times sheds light on the problem from different angles, which helps us deeply understand what impact it might have on League.
TL;DR—we identify risks and use cases of new champions, items, or runes. Sometimes this leads people to ask, "Why didn’t you catch this?" or "How did you let this ship?” We often want to empower designers to take appropriate risks to keep League moving forward. These risks don’t always work out, but once we stop taking risks, League will quickly become a stale game. For something smaller in scope like a champion nerf in a routine patch, we often just provide a gut check for unintended side effects. Or, we might share our thoughts on whether the changes are over or under magnitude. These smaller changes are intended as low risk nudges to a champion or item and usually don’t require too much analysis.

For grander ideas like Akshan’s revive mechanic, we go into deeper analysis. Our job isn’t to tell designers that they can or can’t do something; a designer will try and push the boundaries of what League is, while our job is to anticipate how those changes will fit into the ecosystem. In other words, we demonstrate the risks and how they might manifest by projecting what their idea might look like 6 months into the future once players have mastered it.

So, yeah, that sums up a large portion of what we do on the Game Analysis Team! If you're a high diamond player who loves to think and talk about League, you might be interested in joining us. Keep an eye out for job postings here!
Hi everyone. I’m AzuBK from the Summoner’s Rift Team, here to break down the Amumu changes that just went out with patch 11.17. I’ve been working on Amumu with the intent of showing some love to one of our oldest champions, and wanted to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about how we approach this type of project in general.

For those who aren’t familiar, the core of the change is that Amumu can store two charges of Bandage Toss and his early game is buffed. That new power came with tradeoffs in other parts of his kit, which we’ll get to later on.

So, let’s start from the beginning. Amumu isn’t exactly a world-beater at the high end of League’s ranked ladder, and that’s not news. For a long time now, he’s barely scraped by in higher-skilled play while also bordering on overpowered for the average player. This is an unfortunate position for players of any champion, because it means that your favorite champ becomes less and less powerful as you improve at the game. It can feel like League is telling you that, in order to climb, you need to abandon your champ—and that sucks.

We talk a lot on the Summoner’s Rift Team about ways to help champs in this sort of tough spot, but actually resolving the issue is a delicate undertaking. There are a lot of tricky factors we have to reckon with on this type of change, which we refer to as a “reshape.” Many of them overlap with the considerations we have for VGUs.

We want to enhance what current players of the champion love about their champ, or at least retain it as best we can. However, that playerbase isn’t homogenous. They often want different things, and it’s a careful dance to respect as many of them as possible while also making the changes we believe will best serve everyone.
This type of project usually demands more ambitious, novel changes, which are also more uncertain than something like +5 AD. This means we spend more time than usual testing and validating, and even then the outcome is never 100% sure. PBE feedback is especially helpful for understanding whether players think we’ve gone too far or missed something critical, which can cause us to re-evaluate our approach.
Finally, we ask for a lot of trust when we make big changes to a champion, so the stakes are high. It’s unlikely that we revisit the same champ for major changes anytime soon, since we have obligations to the entire roster and also don’t want to force players to re-learn their main repeatedly. So, both we and players know it’s gotta be good the first time, aside from follow-up tuning.
With all of that in mind, let’s explore how we arrived at the Amumu changes we made this patch. It was clear from the get-go that small adjustments weren’t going to cut it, as he had nearly a 6% winrate difference between Average and Skilled play. So, I pitched a bigger idea that I believed would dramatically increase Amumu’s skill expression: 2 Q charges.

The idea behind this change was that it would add flexibility to his play pattern. He could Spiderman around the jungle, Q to the frontline to threaten the backline, Q to a minion for a gank, Q to peel without giving up all his threat… Basically, Amumu would no longer be a sitting duck after casting his first Q. This change seemed to do the job, so it remained through the entire process. We also know early power is more valuable in higher MMR, so I brought up his clear speed through early W buffs. Combined with the Q change, this seriously improved his early skirmishing.

The Game Analysis Team (high-MMR and ex-pro players who test and advise on our projects) reported that Amumu was running over their tests early game, which was great to hear since the goal was to make him appealing for their skill level specifically. Lower-MMR tests showed him to still be reasonable, which made me pretty confident that the direction could work with some fine-tuning. I pulled back on Q's cooldown, because it often felt more like 3 Qs than 2. I nerfed his late-game through R and W, along with some base stat scaling reductions. After further testing with GAT, we had a list of changes we were proud to deliver to you all.

I hope you enjoyed this look into how we approach reshapes for troubled champions. By the time you read this, Amumu’s reshape has been live for a few days, and I hope he’s landed well. If he hasn’t, I’m probably talking to the team about how we can follow up. If he has, well… there’s always another champion to work on.
Hey everyone, I’m here to talk about a small Lucian update coming your way in 11.17. A quick TLDR of the changes:

Solo Lane early damage slightly down
Lucian gains bonus on-hit damage when buffed by allies (including the Move Speed from W)
R damage shifted to scale better with crit but starts at lower base damage
Lucian’s been quite weak in regular play for most of Season 11 in all his roles (Bot, Mid, and occasionally Top). We don’t mind when a character is flexible in a variety of roles as long as their counterplay is maintained, and actually think it adds valuable depth to the character. However, problems start to appear when less played roles have much higher winrates than the most played role, and we have to nerf a champion for being too strong in a place where most players aren’t interested in playing them. One noteworthy version of this is when an alternate role dominates in Pro play, leading to the main role being limited in regular play.

Lucian falls into the latter. Despite Mid Lane having a lower winrate than Bot Lane in most skill bands, whenever Lucian is viable in solo queue, he quickly starts to dominate Mid Lane picks and bans in Pro play. This means that without a way to buff Lucian only in Bot, his Bot power in regular play is bound by his Mid power in coordinated play.

We wanted to fully understand why Pros value Lucian Mid so much, despite his weak performance in regular play. After asking our Game Analysis Team of former analysts, pros, and high MMR players, the answer boiled down to the following: Pros value early power better, Pros can intentionally draft mixed-damage compositions to offset the lack of an AP mid, and Lucian’s ultimate is a powerful solo-lane tool where there’s more room to be aggressive and fewer people to bodyblock.

After understanding the core reasons why Lucian is more powerful in coordinated play, we moved on to seeing how we could address some of these points to hit the ultimate goal of the project: give power to Lucian Bot without Lucian Mid and Lucian Top dominating Pro Play. Explorations centered on the most obvious difference between the lanes... bot lane Lucian almost always has a support.

Our first pass tried to gate Lucian’s early power by increasing his Mana costs. On the flip side, if Lucian was laning with an ally, he’d get even more mana, letting him spam Q/E and run loose in the bot lane. There was even a wacky iteration where Lucian would restore mana to himself and an ally, leading to hilarious tests where supports like Taric/Lulu would have unlimited mana to pump buffs into Lucian. However, there was a core problem here: Lucian isn’t always with an ally all game. While bot lane has 2 people, there are many cases where Lucian wants to split push since he can win many duels. And that independence is a core part of why players love Lucian. Goal 2 became: Rather than make Lucian feel bad without being near an ally, make him feel even better with an ally in ways that he won't miss dearly when playing more independently.

This brings up a critical third goal. Lucian is already incredibly fun, he’s just a bit weak. We’re not aiming to reinvent the wheel and create complex rules and hooks that take away from Lucian’s core appeal. Sometimes, simple is all that’s needed. Keeping this in mind, we landed on granting Lucian bonus damage whenever buffed by an ally. This version creates a new avenue for supports to help Lucian bully enemies early-game, and also doesn't warp Lucian’s spell-spamming, highly-mobile pattern. With some new power to snowball a lead in Bot Lane, Lucian can remain a more relevant threat before he begins falling off during the endgame.

Lastly, there's Lucian’s ultimate, an ability that scales heavily with levels, which come faster in solo lanes. That extra XP means solo Lucian gets his ult earlier than bot Lucian too, so it impacts a longer portion of lane phase. Threatening to kill level 6 opponents from pretty high health is also a big part of how solo lane Lucian can completely take over a lane. To solve this, we shifted one of The Culling’s scalings (number of bullets) from experience-based to item-based, which is more consistent between lanes. This way, Bot Lucian doesn’t have to wait till levels 11 and 16 for his next spike in ultimate damage. Also, watching The Culling blast more bullets as you get more items is pretty freaking cool.

After a few more touches on base stats and visual effects, Lucian should have a few more tools to help him feel better about heading to the bot lane while still sticking close to his independent, gunslinger identity.
Hi everyone, I’m Jag. Before I became the Lead Game Designer on Summoner’s Rift Team, I was a Champion Designer, and the last project I worked on there was Akshan (with Riot Twin Enso). I’m here to talk about him a bit.

Akshan is a mid lane marksman assassin, built to play aggressive early on in the game by roaming and skirmishing. His intended strengths include:

Strategic flanking and target access due to stealth and mobility from grappling hook.
Long range kill pressure with ultimate.
Unique utility by reviving slain allies.
Highly self-sufficient due to built-in shield and ability to choose engagements.
Strong burst damage, particularly when snowballing.
Windows of top tier roaming from increased movement speed when hunting Scoundrels.
His intended weaknesses include:

Access to revive requires killing an enemy (often the most dangerous one)
Weak reactive defenses, particularly against aggressive melees that can bodyblock his grappling hook.
Worst-in-Marksman-class sustained DPS.
Worst-in-Marksman-class attack range.
Damage falls off significantly with game time.
Extremely unreliable damage in teamfights.
No crowd control, and very low value to the team when behind.
But that’s not what you’re here for; you’re here to ask “do you have any idea exactly how powerful this revive is?”

To which I’d answer—of course not.

And that’s the point.

Our job as champion designers is to make new champions that excite players in unique and novel ways. You, the players, decide through your champion picks whether we succeeded when making a new champion: Whether they're worthy of pouring hours into discovering and optimizing. To go a step further, I feel our best champions are ones who can only be optimized by the community. If our teams can perfectly optimize a champion through internal playtests alone, there's not enough substance. Watching the community finally get to play a new champion is the most exciting part of the project for me, when players discover the ins and outs and the new mains show us something new.

So, no, we're not exactly sure how powerful this revive is. Sometimes Akshan will resurrect a single ally who will proceed to instantly run it down again. Sometimes he'll solo turn a game by killing a Scoundrel that just got a Quadra Kill, reviving his entire team to march forward and take the Nexus. We know just how much potential this mechanic could have, and that drove us to put constraints on this effect (like clearing all Scoundrel marks after taking down the first one), but we won’t know exactly how much power it affords until we get to see live data.

The follow-up question here is “Why would you do something so risky?” And our answer is because every new champion design owes you something unique, exciting, and new. Even when the new unknown factor isn't as loud as a revive, you deserve more than 1-to-1 repeats of champions in the same role with the same patterns and builds. Without taking risks, we wouldn’t have a support with a resetting execution ultimate, or a marksman that has to stop to reload, or a wind samurai that deflects bullets. Beyond that, one of League’s core identities is change, and that applies to how we design, not just what we design. We put stuff out there and sometimes we succeed, sometimes we fail. When we fail, we’ll make changes to keep trying and keep iterating until we get there.

The last question we heard a lot is “Why should Akshan have this revive instead of someone more support-y? I’d rather have more combat power.” The first answer, in terms of what led our exploration into the team utility space, is that it matches who Akshan is as a person. He’s a complex hero on a journey to find a way to be a part of the world. He’s lived his whole life on his own, but now wants to live in a way that lets him connect with people and help them, even if doing that could severely cost him.

Of course, it has to go beyond that—the revive has to make sense in terms of gameplay. Players talk a lot about champions that are not just fun to play as, but also fun to play against. We summarized those in the two lists up top and expect a lot of followup conversation will focus there, but I also want to talk about designing Akshan as a champion who's fun to play with.

League is a cooperative game. Winning requires teamwork. When designing an exceptionally selfish character archetype (the overlap of Assassin AND Marksman), finding a way to let them contribute to the team that aligns with the exact way they want to play was an incredible challenge. It's really important that when you see Akshan deep in enemy territory looking to hunt down the enemy Scoundrel instead of grouping with everyone else, you know he's still part of the team, and you can root for him to succeed because you know he's there for the team.

Tying it all back, that idea of hunting scoundrels to help your team rather than just padding your KDA is one of the key ways Akshan offers something unique. To riff on that one Henry Ford quote, "if I had asked [assassins] what they wanted, they would have said [kill squishies better]." No champion appeals to everyone, but I truly believe some of you are going to love playing this marksman-assassin who wants to help his team. That's a new experience for League. And that's why it's worth it.
Hi, Captain Gameplay here with an update on upcoming Sona work. If you might recall, Sona was briefly meta as a top laner who took the support item and just harassed and roamed, without really trying to even last hit. While we generally like alternative play styles (ex. camp clearing buffs to allow more champs to jungle, adding more ratios for champs to scale with alternate builds), this playstyle violated a core laning skill test—in lane, someone should be attempting to farm minions and contesting that should be valuable for the opponent. In addition, this strategy was particularly feels-bad, since top laners got endlessly harassed by long ranged attacks and auto-targeted spells.

Last year we made some changes to Sona in order to give us a way to address solo lane Sona without hitting from Bot/Support Sona. We added a mana refund that tied her to sharing auras with allies, and increased her mana costs. Functional, but not very fun: Sona loves to cast lots of spells, and her auras are actually a small amount of the mindshare of each one. Preventing her from casting spells (by running her out of mana) unless she played around an effect she often didn't think about made for a less fun version of Sona.

Well we are now re-visiting Sona to replace this mana refund mechanic with something that Sona players will be more excited about. In place of high mana costs and a mana refund, we are replacing Sona's Ultimate cooldown passive with a stacking mechanic that rewards her for using Q and W in a way that matches the mindshare of those spells. A positive incentive rather than a negative one that doesn't punish her by preventing her from casting future spells will make for a generally more enjoyable experience.

Now, when Sona damages enemy champions with Q - Hymn of Valor or uses W - Aria of Perseverance to heal an injured ally or protect them from damage with the shield (the full base value; a tiny bit of ambient damage won't count), she will permanently gain a stack of Accelerando, granting ability haste for her basic abilities (up to a cap). Striking two different champions with Q will grant two stacks, and W can grant up to 5 stacks if it heals an ally and blocks damage on all four allies. This new passive rewards Sona for using Q and W well in a duo lane, rather than penalizing her like the mana refund did.

After Sona reaches the cap for Accelerando, subsequent stacks will instead refund a bit of R - Crescendo's cooldown. We chose ultimate cooldown refund as a reward here to encourage very exciting, aggressive Crescendo plays.

Sona is currently planned for patch 11.16, which ships next month!
Hey all! A hefty batch of Irelia changes hit PBE this week, and I’m here to walk you through the journey:

Durability down early, up late
Passive caps at 4 stacks instead of 5
Max passive damage and Attack Speed down early
Q dash speed reduced slightly
Q minion damage scales with level
W physical DR scales with level
W has magic DR again (half the physical amount)
W damage increased substantially
E blade travel time fixed at 0.25s
Each R rank reduces Q's base cooldown
Irelia is a bit of a hot mess. She’s a lane-destroying counter god, but falls off later like a brick taking swim lessons. Her W doesn’t feel great. She’s so powerful in the hands of pros that the rest of you are playing a champ whose winrate is usually... rough. We wanted to smooth out her power curve, make her kit feel a little better to play, and tap her power down in pro play.

I had some ideas for how to get there, and went to the Game Analysis Team (a bunch of high MMR players and ex pro analysts who playtest and polish the stuff designers make) to gut check them. I also chatted with Irelia's VGU designer about Irelia's strengths and weaknesses, as well as which parts of her kit are really exciting and what falls flat. Based on those discussions, I had two initial goals. One: See whether we could lower Irelia's early power to nerf her in pro, or if "dominate lane at the cost of late game power" was fundamental to what makes Irelia exciting. Two: See if adding a new effect to W would make that spell feel more exciting and worth using.

Dropping her early durability and passive strength was successful for goal 1. In pro, live Irelia wins by crushing the early game so hard that she's too far ahead to ever fall off. This version struggled to achieve that same level of autowin laning since she couldn’t gigachad statcheck half the roster, but she still felt like Irelia when she earned an advantage. The second change was dicier. In this test, max-charge W applied Q's mark to all enemies hit. A perfect W could mark all five opponents, which was really freaking exciting for Irelia's fantasy of zipping and dashing through fights. It was also really really messed up. Even just in lane, she could charge W and whack you, mark you, then kill you. W was definitely worth casting, but too much so.

Onto round two where W healed Irelia for every enemy hit, scaling with charge time. This was still exciting, but not nearly so much as the mark. It also shoved Irelia too hard into sustain. This convinced me to reassess whether the spell actually needed an extra effect.

For iteration three, I took a step back to look at more than just W. One of Irelia's mechanics I knew was problematic, but had been reluctant to change, was E timing. In experienced hands on low ping, E is a zero-counterplay stun. On high ping or for regular players, though, hitting the stun is a decently interesting challenge. I knew this was going to hurt, but I had to try it. I changed E's blade travel time from variable to fixed: No matter where you tried to cast a blade it would always take 0.25 seconds to get there.

This definitely stung experienced Irelias. A unique combo was gone and the spell was less responsive. That always sucks. But going back to our goals, it helped level the playing field between pros and everyone else, and bought even more room to make W satisfying. For v3, I buffed W's damage and DR, and brought back its magic damage reduction! The button felt like a powerful defense again and honestly, that’s all it needed to be.

We had leftover power budget to spare (that's how warping insta-E was), so I had a few more things to try. First: Going back to a 4 stack passive. Irelia’s passive is really unforgiving at 5 stacks: Without minions around, you have to hit every ability to get to 5, and below that you just don’t deal damage. Getting back to 4 stacks was a substantial accessibility improvement and didn’t heavily cut into Irelia's mastery or fantasy.

The last story to tell is about R's Q-cooldown-reducing passive. Irelia’s supposed to be a battle dancer wooshing through teamfights taking people down and prancing around, but one double tap Q and you’ve got lead in your pointes. I wanted to let her live out her teamfight dance fantasy, so we tested each R rank giving her basic ability haste. That got pretty messed up with multiple W's and E's in a fight, but it was perfect for Q so we just converted it into a flat reduction.

After that, a few touches of art and sound, and wham, we have a spruced up Irelia we think can be playable even after Baron spawns, and isn’t just for pros.

Also now enemies can see her passive stacks.
The Future of Quick Gameplay Thoughts
Some of you may have already heard, but I’m transitioning from my role on the League team to be Game Director on Riot’s MMORPG project. Along with handing off my responsibilities as Gameplay Design Director to the current (and new) design leads we’re continuing these gameplay thoughts blogs in a slightly different form.

You can still expect to get a dev blog every 2 weeks covering a range of topics from Champions, reworks, balance, items, runes, player behavior, matchmaking, and anything else we may be working on. These will cover both what we’re doing, changes in direction, philosophy around our design decisions, and retrospectives on our past work.

What is changing is that instead of a single author (like the way Meddler and I had been doing this) we will have a cast of different designers and developers covering their teams' work and philosophies. It’ll be great to have a few more voices represented here and that will bring you more fresh perspectives and insights into areas that I wasn’t as close to.

Some of the people you’re likely to hear from:

Meddler - Game Director
Fearless - (new) Design Director
(Coming Soon) - (new) Gameplay design lead
Riot Brightmoon - Gameplay production lead
Riot Codebear - Competitive team producer
BarackProbama - Competitive team design lead
Jag - Summoner’s Rift team design lead
Riot Petrie - Summoner’s Rift team producer
Reav3 - Champions team producer
Riot Axes - Champions design lead
Riot Rovient - Personalization (skins) design lead
I just wanted to say thank you again to you all for being such an engaged and wonderful community. I’ve had the time of my life working on League of Legends these past 8 years and I’m looking forward to engaging with you all again (after a while) when we have more to show on the MMO.
Mobility Philosophy
Mobility is one of the fundamental building blocks of League combat, as both an exciting and necessary tool to keep other players at range, or close in as a melee. There are places where mobility has been crept up, including a few items that have gone beyond the limits of where they should be. I wanted to walk through some of our higher level philosophies around mobility while we’re working on a trimming pass to bring the live game closer to our ideal.

Great uses of mobility:
Mobility paired with weaknesses - lower range, lower damage, lower defenses. This makes the champion with mobility have to use its “fight choosing” power effectively because they won't necessarily win a face to face 1-on-1 against a less mobile champion.
Systemic mobility with a clear opportunity cost - Like the previous, when adding systemic mobility through items or runes it should be a significant tradeoff against the other options that offer more of the other attributes your champion wants.
Mobility with constraints - Extreme high mobility can be offered in a healthy way if it comes with situational constraints. Only allowing the mobility pop off through risky, aggressive, or contextual use allows players playing as and against to build strategies before and during fights. Good examples here are Irelia Q vs minions, Tristana W reset and *gasp* Yasuo E. A bad example we removed was Akali's R1 originally being untargeted giving her incredible engage and escape power simultaneously.
Very long cooldowns for systemic mobility - By adding extremely long cooldowns, we can actually break class weaknesses with systemic mobility. If the opportunity to go beyond what is normal is a rare and precious action, it adds strategy, excitement, and a way for players to break the normal flow of combat a few times a game. The best and only example here is Flash.
Poor uses of mobility:
Systemic mobility that breaks class weakness - Some classes (like Juggernauts) are built with exceptional strengths around their lack of mobility. Offering them too much mobility via runes or items can break both the expectations of players in the game and the intended weaknesses of the class. This doesn’t mean they can never be offered mobility, it just has to be done with extra care. Systemic mobility in particular is an area we pushed too far with the item update and its followup, and our trimming pass will focus on this space.
Mobility tuning that creeps beyond the game norms - we have established ranges, movement speeds, dash ranges, and dash speeds across champions and items. It would be a problem if the mobility tools of new champs or items are always just slightly stronger than the mobility tools of existing champs and items because that cheating compounds over time and significantly shifts the average mobility in the game.
Too much unconstrained mobility - Both low cooldowns and freedom of targeting can make mobility an overly powerful tool with no good answer for opponents. If a champion can always choose when to be in and out of fights, they never have to take risks or commit to an all in. The closest we get to this is probably a level 16 Kassadin, but in that case he has to survive a disadvantaged early game to reach that level of mobility.
How did we get here? It’s necessary to push and test the limits of the game to find great improvements, but that does mean that sometimes we will go too far and need to pull back. So we’re working on a few changes to trim down on small instances of mobility creep and a few larger ones where we think we pushed too far in terms of breaking class weaknesses. Look for those in a few patches. Thanks again for playing with us.
This week’s focus is on counterplay, one of our principles of Champion gameplay design, rather than upcoming work or the state of the current game. There's not a lot new here for longtime readers, but it's been a while since we touched on the subject so wanted to share our thinking with newer players.

Champion Counterplay
Counterplay, one of our key values, could be defined as “action, choice, or strategy a player can use to mitigate or overcome an enemy threat.” This has been a staple of our design philosophy for many years and has improved League time and time again when we apply it well. The two main benefits of this game design principle are:

Fairness - Having an understandable, clear, and useful response significantly reduces the frustration of a losing game or death even if a player or team can't perfectly execute on it at their current skill level. It helps players grow by pointing them toward actions they could have taken to succeed, rather than just feel like the game cheated them. (This is also often referred to in game design as Agency.)
Depth - Champion designs that leave room for an opponent to respond add many additional layers to the depth of the experience. Battles can be a back and forth of mechanical and mental skill instead of a “who shoots first” one-and-done experience.
"The ideal champion has clear strengths and weaknesses that offer counterplay at a strategic level, paired with tactical counterplay for in combat response."
Counterplay can come in many forms, and every champion needs a slightly different way of delivering the appropriate counterplay to match their unique strengths and weaknesses:

Tactical Counterplay - This is the “in the moment” opportunities to respond to a spell or champion combo.
Notable examples - Dodging a skillshot, interrupting a channel, long windup for preparing defenses, and positioning behind an ally or minion to block attacks.
Tactical counterplay is essential for super high impact moments or combos that will often guarantee death like Blitzcrank hook, Ashe R, or Sion Q.
In most cases it’s best to make sure that tactical gameplay is universally accessible (versus being tied to a specific champ ability like a dash or immunity) so that all opponents have the opportunity to respond to this impactful spell.
Too much can actually be a bad thing. Not every spell needs tactical counterplay, and too much leads to a kit that feels clunky or overly unreliable.
Impact and counterplay should often be proportional: Stronger effects benefit from more counterplay. (Some spells like Ashe R do both at once with an increasing stun duration as the spell moves further and gives opponents more time to dodge)
Strategic Counterplay - This type of counterplay is accessed out of combat and often by the team (instead of in combat like tactical counterplay).
Notable examples - Building counter items, invading a weak early jungler, grouping against an assassin, using a blue trinket to avoid an ambush, pushing into a champion with poor waveclear.
Strategic counterplay can be connected to a champion’s specific mechanics (like using control wards to counter Evelynn), but it’s more often a part of dealing with that champion's broader goals, like splitpushing or hyperscaling
Strategic counterplay can be difficult to understand and appreciate because many forms of it are about setting up the right fight (or avoiding it), rather than executing within a fight. Adding signals that expose good strategic play can get more players engaged in it (pings for example do this well).
Champion Weaknesses - This is a set of properties, champion class, or team strategy that tend to succeed against a champion.
Notable examples - Xerath’s immobility makes him weak to mobile assassins, Qiyana’s burst damage runs out of steam against a tank, Nasus is kited by mobile ranged champions.
These weaknesses should lead to a moderate disadvantage, not a complete counter. The variety that comes from playing the game from advantaged or disadvantaged positions (compared to a perfectly level playing field at all times) helps games from feeling too same-y, but if there is no chance of winning against a counter too much agency is lost.
Finding the right counterplay for a champion is always a bit different, but a commonly successful approach is to design around their strengths.

Kayn is meant to transform into a near-godlike form in the late game. This led to both a strategic early game weakness and putting a strong tactical counterplay opportunity in his W that stays relevant even when he’s a big late game boy.
If Jhin delivers best in class CC and damage at long ranges, it makes sense to pair that with a clear weakness to very tanky teams because he lacks the sustained damage to deal with them. His extreme range also led to clear tactical counterplay needs, so W and R offer opportunities to dodge or mitigate.
I hope these insights were interesting to you all, and you can use your knowledge of these design values to hold us to a high standard and help make League better every day. Thanks again for playing with us.
Jungle Accessibility
One of our longer term goals is to increase position preference for the jungle in lower MMR. We’re attacking the problem from a few angles that we think will in particular reduce some of the esoteric optimizations and help onboard newer players to the role. These are the changes we're initially planning at time of writing, Tuesday the 27th; tunings may change by the time this goes up on Friday but the general rationale will still hold true:

More forgiving jungle clears - With the current shorter jungle timers the pace of farming and ganking has gone up considerably, making every misstep a major setback for both the jungler and their team.
Jungle Monster Base Attack Damage reduced across many camps
Jungle Monster Attack Damage scaling reduced across many camps
Camp Respawn Timer :: 2 minutes >>> 2 minutes 15 seconds
Camp "bright' warning timer :: 15 seconds >>> 10 seconds
Jungle Gold from non-buff Camps :: Increased by approximately 5%
Widen the viable champ pool - We think that less reliance on having a perfect AOE clearing kit or the right CC tools to have Scuttle dominance will open up viability to a few more champs.
Smite (along with crowd control) will break the Scuttle Crab's shield before applying damage
Omnivamp on jungle items :: 10% >>> 8%
Smite Percent Max Health Healing :: 10% >>> 15%
Reduced snowball - Another factor that is both causing too much stress but also too much influence over the game outcome is how hard the jungle position can snowball. We think reducing this will make the position easier to break into and more enjoyable long term.
Reintroducing comeback XP - Large monsters grant 50 XP per level you are below the average level of the game minus 1 (if the average level is 7, you get comeback XP at level 5 and below)
Smite Damage to Monsters :: 390-1000 (based on levels) >>> 500 at base, 1000 after Smite quest completion
Camp Leashing Clarity (future work) - A particularly important skill for high level jungle optimizations is to perfectly manage the monster leash ranges and drag them into optimal positions for max clear speed. While not removing this skill, we want to help newer junglers learn the rules and leash ranges of each monster camp.
When within 200 range of causing the monster to leash, a warning particle will appear to show the monster’s leash range
At a high level we want these changes to be helpful and satisfying for Jungle players across all levels of play but we’re not aiming for a significant power increase or decrease for the position. We’re giving and taking away power in equal measure while shifting mechanics so that the jungle is a bit more welcoming to newcomers. There are probably a few more iterations and adjustments to make before these changes go to live servers so we’ll be reading and processing your feedback from the PBE.

Thanks again for playing with us.
Hey folks! Riot Jag, Design Manager for the Summoner's Rift Team here guest-writing this week's Quick Gameplay Thoughts.

Patch 11.8, which shipped this week, included changes to help Darius, Diana, Mordekaiser, Zed, and Morgana jungle more viably. These are all champions who primarily see play in lanes, and we've seen questions around why we chose these champs versus others. We want to share a bit about our thought process here.

Why give laners jungle changes?
Right now, the jungle is very intimidating to a lot of our players, especially in lower MMRs. We are currently considering systemic changes to help this, but in the meantime we saw an opportunity to ease in players to the jungle with champions they’re already familiar with playing. By doing this, an unfamiliar jungle player can just focus on learning the specifics of the role, without also having to learn a new champion at the same time.

Additionally, we always look to increase diversity to the experience of the game, and having a new set of junglers helps a lot in that regard. That being said, we’re not trying to shift these champions’ primary role—just add to the possibilities available.

How we choose specific champs
We target champions that we feel have a good chance of being able to off-role as junglers without boosting the power of their lane roles. Additionally, we try to stay away from champions that have a lot of pro viability already, as adding flex potential tends to make them very high priority in the pick/ban phase. Finally, we want to make sure we pick champions that retain their weaknesses and counterplay even when coming out of the jungle.

Why not bring back champions who were previously nerfed out of jungling instead?
If we nerfed a champion out of the jungle it was probably on purpose. Maybe they were overly dominant in pro (Sylas), or maybe they had an unhealthy pattern when in the jungle (Camille). Unless things have drastically changed (eg. updates to the kits/items/runes that were problematic), these picks are not likely to come back.

What about primary junglers who are struggling?
We try to keep total buffs and nerfs to the game relatively even to prevent patch-by-patch power creep, which means even if we weren't doing jungle changes for lane champs, we still wouldn't just straight up buff a ton of main junglers. Jungle accessibility changes actually don't factor as directly into buff/nerf calculations for jungle overall since the champs aren't currently seeing play there: Adding more champs to the role doesn't necessarily make it stronger or weaker relative to lanes.

That said, in cases where we are forced to choose between buffing exceptionally weak main junglers and making more lane champs jungle-viable—available dev time on the team, for example—we'll still prioritize buffing those main-role junglers. (No, 48% is not 'exceptionally' weak.) As recent examples, we buffed Zac, Rammus, Amumu, and Kindred in the past month.
We're looking forward to seeing the results of our 11.8 changes. If they turn out well, we’ll look to add even more champions to the jungle. In the meantime, expect more systemic jungle changes in 11.10, aimed at raising the jungle floor, and not the ceiling.

Yetter jungle wins,

Jag
Split Pushing Goals
Something we’ve been talking about a lot internally is finding ways to enhance the “split push” strategic play and improve its gameplay while we’re at it. Historically split pushing has been both an exciting strategic option that added variety to the overall endgame, but it’s also been sometimes a frustrating and uninteractive strategy that grinds down a losing team without opportunity for them to respond.

What do we think contributes to healthy split pushing gameplay?

Split push allows a solo player to exert pressure - Creating a strategy that allows a team that is generally behind but has a strong solo player to avoid a likely losing 5v5 is a good outlet for skillful comebacks.
Attrition is a meaningful element - We wouldn’t want a single duel to decide the outcome of the game for all 10 players, so healthy split pushing is an attrition game. Successful trades or duels gain resources and advantage over time, which can eventually lead to a strong position to win the game.
Split pushing enhances strategic play for both teams - The dynamic of 1-4 or 1-3-1 leads to a large amount of different opportunities for map rotations, vision control, and fight sizes. When this is present, we see more diverse champion meta and more skills to master for everyone.
An avenue for top lane impact in the late game - Top lane as a position has historically had issues translating early success to a meaningful impact on the team’s late game chances of winning. We think that split push can offer the common fighter and skirmisher picks that you see in top lane a better opportunity to push objectives when they normally struggle in 5v5 fights.
What things would we like to avoid?

Pushing without a champion present - We don’t like to support strategies that create objective pressure without champion conflict. Almost all of the skill expression and interest in League’s gameplay comes from the back and forth conflict of champions in various scenarios. So we generally want to ensure that the path to winning involves as much of the best gameplay that we can offer.
Pushing without risk or counterplay (usually death) - The biggest cause of uninteractive and frustrating split push is when the solo pusher is too safe. Rotating or all-inning for a kill is an important counter strategy that we want to preserve. In the past we’ve seen this caused by champions with overly strong escape tools, ability to damage the tower from too far away, and vision tools being significantly too available so approaching rotations are always seen.
Split pushers have too many strengths without necessary weaknesses - Different champions that split push will have different strengths that they can bring like incredible tower threat (Nasus), strong escapes (Camille), dueling power (Fiora), or global mobility (Shen). When champs operate with too many of these strengths and not enough weakness it can create an unhealthy state where there is no usable counter strategy.
Avoiding fights too easily - When a split push is happening, the pressure is on for the defending team to effectively rotate to the pusher or force a successful 4v4 fight. When the pushing team is too effective at disengaging it creates an unhealthy stalemate where slow pressure is applied forever without any action.
We don’t have any solid plans or promises to make yet, but we’re in early exploration on ways to enable split pushing (in the ways we think are good for the game).

Thanks again for playing with us.
Item Choice Data Correction
We wanted to make a correction to our item choice deep dive in last week’s post. The 11.3 data we had been using was an unfiltered view including ARAM and URF modes. Posts like these are made separately from the teams doing the work, and with fairly short turnaround times. In this case, the default data view included the wrong modes and we simply didn’t check it thoroughly enough to verify. Although we also want item diversity in alternate modes, we’re evaluating the success of the system on competitive Summoner’s Rift modes: Ranked Solo Queue, Ranked Flex, and Clash.

This mistake had no impact on balance decisions, whether over the past few months or for future planning, because the Summoner's Rift Team doesn't use the unfiltered view. The only impact was to the graphs for last week's post and our explanation of them in the text.

Previously we said that 88% of champions were hitting our Mythic choice goal in 11.3 but the correct number for standard Summoner's Rift queues is 72% (74% if you include normals). This is a meaningful difference, and we don’t want to misrepresent the current state of item choice—hence this followup.

These are the champs who were hardbound in 11.3, with new additions highlighted in bold:

Marksmen
21 hits, 3 misses

Jhin (90.2% Galeforce)
Samira (94.0% Immortal Shieldbow)
Vayne (82.2% Kraken Slayer)
AD Assassin
10 hits, 0 miss

*Kha'Zix dropped below hardbinding thresholds at 73.8% Duskblade of Draktharr pickrate
AP Assassin and Fighter
10 hits, 8 misses

Ekko (87.1% Hextech Rocketbelt)
Elise (88.6% Night Harvester)
Evelynn (78.7% Night Harvester)
Kennen (81.4% Hextech Rocketbelt)
LeBlanc (85.9% Luden's Tempest)
Lillia (86.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Mordekaiser (85.6% Riftmaker)
Nidalee (86.6% Night Harvester)
Mage
23 hits, 10 misses

Brand (82.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Cassiopeia (88.8% Liandry's Anguish)
Karthus (85.9% Liandry's Anguish)
Malzahar (87.3% Liandry's Anguish)
Syndra (81.0% Luden's Tempest)
Taliyah (75.7% Luden's Tempest)
Twisted Fate (75.1% Hextech Rocketbelt)
Veigar (75.2% Luden's Tempest)
Zoe (86.8% Luden's Tempest)
Zyra (75.2% Liandry's Angush)
Fighter
24 hits, 12 misses

Aatrox (86.1% Goredrinker)
Darius (86.8% Strikebreaker)
Garen (83.1% Stridebreaker)
Jayce (91.9% Eclipse)
Kayn [Red] (87.9% Goredrinker)
Nasus (81.9% Divine Sunderer)
Olaf (93.0% Goredrinker)
Pantheon (76.8% Eclipse)
Rek'Sai (84.7% Prowler's Claw)
Renekton (76.5% Goredrinker)
Riven (76.3% Goredrinker)
Udyr (83.7% Turbo Chemtank)
Tank
18 hits, 6 misses

Amumu (79.2% Sunfire Aegis)
Braum (79.6% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Leona (77.4% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Rammus (77.3% Turbo Chemtank)
Skarner (84.9% Turbo Chemtank)
Thresh (80.2% Locket of the Iron Solari)
Enchanter
7 hits, 4 misses

Ivern (84.0% Moonstone Renewer)
Lulu (77.0% Moonstone Renewer)
Soraka (75.1% Moonstone Renewer)
Yuumi (81.6% Moonstone Renewer)
Still an improvement from season 10, but not quite as strong as the numbers we presented last week.

Something else we do look at is high MMR choice variety. This is helpful as an indicator of future trends, or sometimes just reflects the different way the game is played at high vs low MMR. Overall there is a moderate increase in item diversity across the board, though there are some cases of less diversity, like Sona who builds Moonstone more.

Our overall goals and future plans are unchanged. We want to have maximum strategic choice for the item system without compromising other important parts of League’s gameplay. We will continue to make changes that broaden hard bound items, buff unviable ones, and nerf dominant choices.

Thanks again for playing with us.
One of our goals with preseason's item changes was to increase the strategic options and choices available. The changes have settled a bit and we’ve followed up on the most pressing issues, so we're sharing a rundown on every class to see where we've achieved our goals and where we still need to improve.

For mythic items, our goal is that “no champion chooses the same mythic in 75%+ of games.” The percent is a bit arbitrary, but we feel it represents a champion having viable options to think about each game. You might assume it'd be "each champion chooses each of their mythics 33% of the time", but we think that’s unrealistic and in some ways a worse experience. Having a most common pick is fine as long as other options are the right pick frequently enough. We don't think we'll see 100% of champions meet this goal, but we'll always try to move toward it as we iterate and improve the game.

In patch 11.3, 88% of champions hit the goal, which we're very excited about. This is a dramatic increase from historical levels: In 10.22 (the patch before preseason), only ~20% of champions would have been successful.

NOTE ON THE GRAPHS: Our data tool only uses about a dozen colors so we had to recolor double-ups. Only items with labeled pickrates (5%+) are guaranteed to be the right color, more than enough for a mythic diversity snapshot, but if you use the graphs as deep-dives the unlabeled bars may be misleading.

Some champs have lower total mythic pickrates because they don't complete a mythic every game. This typically happens when they build a legendary or two first, and games end before they finish a mythic.

Marksmen
21 hits, 3 misses. This is one of the classes with richest choice options, with many champs seeing significant pickrate on 3 or more mythics.

Don't sleep on: Kraken Slayer MF is very good into tankier “front to back” team comps.

2_26_21_11-3-Marksmen-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Marksmen-2.jpg

AD Assassin
9 hits, 1 miss. Duskblade is clearly the most appealing option even though it's not actually the most powerful in all cases. Even then, only Kha'Zix is hardbound to it, though Nocturne, Pyke, and Qiyana are close to the line as well.

Don't sleep on: Both Prowler's Claw and Eclipse are strong options for most of these champs, especially in the right situations.

2_26_21_11-3-AD-Assassin_v2.jpg

AP Assassin and Fighters
14 hits, 4 misses. There’s a pretty good balance between Rocketbelt and Night Harvester for most AP Assassins, and the few that can dip into mage items have even more choices.

Riftmaker fills a very strong niche for fighters and sustained damage dealers, but could potentially be widened a bit to provide an off-build for more champs.

Don't sleep on: Night Harvester Ekko is comparable and often better than Rocketbelt. Also Rocketbelt is quite good on Diana Jungle.

2_26_21_11-3-AP-Assassins.jpg

Mages
27 hits, 6 misses. This is the class we think is farthest off. Even though only six are hardbound, many are close to it. Primarily this comes from two causes:

Everfrost is underdelivering on power or appeal and is almost never used. 11.4's buffs should help, and we'll reevaluate after if we need to do deeper work.
Liandry's/Luden’s have some of the more “kit synergistic” effects among mythics, which leads to some champs favoring them a bit too strongly. They're both great items with strong appeal, so our solution space is likely more about creating competing options rather than removing what's currently working.
Don't sleep on: Other than the obvious “Everfrost just got buffed,” Liandry’s is legit on Ahri, Annie, Orianna, and Vel’koz.

2_26_21_11-3-Mage-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Mage-2_v3.jpg

Fighter
31 hits, 5 misses. In terms of strategic choices, we’re pretty happy with how the fighter mythics turned out. Multiple items with clear reasons and situations to pick are exactly the “right choice in the right game” dynamic we wanted.

A few Juggernauts like Garen and Darius are a bit too confined to Stridebreaker, so there may be some small work to do on this issue down the road.

Don't sleep on: Stridebreaker Aatrox and Fiora. Makes sense considering how important positioning is for them.

2_26_21_11-3-Fighter-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Fighter-2.jpg

Tank
24 hits, 0 misses. At the start of preseason, farming and support Tanks were in the worst spots in terms of item diversity. In particular, Sunfire was the “generic damage” option while also having the most generically usable mythic passive (Ability Haste). This made it a dominant choice that worked in every situation.

Now, Tanks are the only class with no hardbinding. We were able to move from only 50% to 100% of our goal with both balance changes and some light reworks of the tank mythics to give them more clear and viable niches.

Don't sleep on: Chemtank and Frostfire are way better than people think on Sejuani, Nunu, Zac, Malphite, Amumu.

2_26_21_11-3-Tank-1.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Tank-2_v3.jpg

Enchanter
10 hits, 1 miss. Enchanters show a strange trend where Moonstone Renewer, Imperial Mandate, Shurelya’s Battlesong, and Locket of the Iron Solari are all broadly viable in terms of power. Despite that, players gravitate heavily toward Moonstone and Mandate even when Locket and Battlesong are just as powerful for them.

Don't sleep on: Locket across the board, this item is killer into bursty teams.

2_26_21_11-3-Enchanters.jpg

Legendaries
Legendary items require a different approach, but the high level is still the same: Each legendary slot should offer strategy and choice depending on the game state.

We look at factors like pick rate, win rate, pick order, and others to determine which Legendaries are over and underperforming. One particularly useful method is to see which items dominate the second item slot.

Here are the most and least purchased legendaries. Many recent changes have targeted strong (Zhonya’s) and weak (Silvermere, Cosmic Drive, Serpent’s Fang) outliers to widen the range of options.

2_26_21_11-3-Legendary-Most.jpg

2_26_21_11-3-Legendary-Least.jpg

Hopefully this deep dive was interesting and helps you all understand our approach and future goals for the item system.

Smaller Updates Pipeline
In 2021 we’re interested in increasing the amount of smaller scale design work on Champions, Items, and Runes. We feel like our bigger projects (New champs and VGUs) and patch-by-patch balance changes are on a good track, but there's a middle zone that can give us a little more flexibility to improve the game.

The types of projects this may include are:

Overly skewed towards Pro Play
Champions that have pattern-level (as opposed to power level) issues that create difficulties for long-term balance
They're picked frequently in professional games but have very low solo queue win rates, making it painful when we nerf them
These champs often display a pattern where “the more skill you have, the more you can remove the counterplay” as opposed to having difficult-to-execute combos that pros are just better at. As you might expect, at the pro level we’re seeing the weaknesses mitigated too far
Examples here - Upcoming Tahm Kench changes, Sylas changes in season 10
Game health or counterplay issues at all levels of play
These champs are often balanced (as opposed to the Pro Play skewed champs who end up underpowered for regular play) and even sometimes popular. However, they degrade the overall game quality because they have insufficient counterplay or promote strategies that lower the depth and interaction of other players
Examples here - Aphelios (s10 range and aoe burst reductions), Akali (s9 invis under tower removal)
Older champs that need love
Often these champs have reasonable power/win rates but players just feel they aren’t keeping up with the current game
These updates will often look to strengthen the identity of the champ and find ways the make their current power more satisfying, clear, or skill expressive
Examples here - Upcoming Rammus changes, 11.3 Jinx changes
Items not hitting their goals
Not appealing - Sometimes an item can be balanced but doesn't deliver on its fantasy in a satisfying way, so players don't buy it even in cases where it'd be good.
Unhealthy - Removing counterplay or skewing the shape of the game too far (like burst, sustain, range) are problems we want to fix. (Hextech Gunblade)
Unclear purpose - The item either doesn't have a clear set of circumstances where it's strong, or that circumstance is overly narrow. That makes it either generically weak, or a must-buy if tuned to be generically strong.
Runes not hitting their goals
Warping pattern - Some runes can be under picked mostly because they demand too much from the player and end up feeling like “playing the rune not the champion”. (ex. Omnistone)
Dominating choice - Some runes ruin the choice structure by being too generically powerful for too many different types of champion. (Conqueror has run into this a few times in the past.)
Game Health issues - like with items, runes can undermine important gameplay. Nimbus Cloak is a recent example where it was breaking the intended weaknesses of many fighters and tanks by giving them too much target access.
We’re hoping to establish a small pipeline for these projects, which should lead to a bunch of them shipping over the course of the season.

State of the game
At a high level we wanted Preseason 2021 and our work throughout 2020 to be about strengthening and improving the foundations of League for the next 10 years. I wanted to take a quick overview of the state of the game: What we’re feeling good about, and what we want to improve.

The Item System Update
We updated the item system to increase strategic choice, satisfaction, and accessibility. We’re generally seeing those goals met when we look at the game widely, but we're still focusing on follow up work to realize the full potential.

Most champions and classes are seeing a wider set of item choices that suit different games, but there are some cases where choices are either not there, or not clear and satisfying enough to feel there. We’re seeing roughly 20% of champs crossing our “Mythic hardbinding” threshold (same Mythic in >75% of games).

We’re going to continue addressing these gaps to get as close to 100% of champions with meaningful build diversity. That said, build diversity is one value among a long list of gameplay goals, so we wouldn't sacrifice too much of other important things like satisfaction, counterplay, or champion uniqueness to achieve it. This means addressing hardbinding will take longer than standard balance concerns since the work required is more disruptive and risky, but getting as close to 0% Mythic hardbinding as possible is one of our ongoing focuses.

In the last few patches we’ve assessed the state of item choices and power level across many classes to tune the greatest outliers. 11.1 saw buffs to underused items like Shurelya’s and Ionian Boots; in 11.2 we adjusted the tank Mythics to help Frostfire Gauntlet and Turbo Chemtank compete with Sunfire Cape; in 11.3 we’re targeting fighter class outliers like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage, and shifting systemic healing toward more conventional durability.

Balancing and reworking the new groundwork we laid in preseason will eventually taper off into normal patch work on items. Our hope is that, by the end of spring, every champ has a range of satisfying (even if not totally perfect) choices. As things settle, we’re looking at a few opportunities to add new items to flesh out a few classes.

The Item Shop
The item shop overhaul has hit our goal of creating a tailored experience for each type of player from new to master level experience. The upgraded recommendation system using high level player data in particular has been performing quite well: Lots of players use the Recommended tab as their default and it’s been exposing players to more viable choices and teaching them the basics of when each option is worth considering.

I would still estimate that our new shop is only 90% of the way to completely finished though. As we continue to play with it, small but critical usability improvements become clear. Now that we're using modern tech, we hope to continue adding more and more functionality over time to make the shop usability feel like second nature.

Position Balance
With so many item changes this preseason we were anticipating some needed followup on position balance. (We look at both pick rate as well as a position's ability to influence the outcome of a game to assess its power and health.) Bot and Support landed weaker than before the update, but we focused on followup for both during the preseason window and they've recovered to appropriately powerful spots.

One thing on our radar for the future is the Jungle position. It’s one of the most influential/powerful positions, but also low popularity, meaning there's a satisfaction or accessibility problem keeping it from being appealing despite how powerful it is. We've made light-touch changes on this front a few times in recent years, like adding jungling tools to champion kits, putting camp timers on the minimap, and increasing viable path options so more champs can make it through the first few clears. Those light touches expectedly weren't comprehensive solutions, so Jungle continues to be something we're thinking about. 

Worth noting: We’ve seen positive reception to the new Jungle item experience of buying a jungle starter and getting to your build right away. This not only streamlined jungling for new entrants to the role, but also freed up build paths for veterans. We're confident there are still more ways like this for us to improve the appeal of the role without undermining the core skill and flexibility that current junglers love.

Burst Damage
At preseason launch, many players felt an increase in burst damage (mostly coming from big item actives or passive procs), past the point of where we think the healthiest and richest version of LoL gameplay should be. When damage gets too high, counterplay and in-combat decisionmaking suffers, so we began looking into the issue once preseason data stabilized enough for us to be sure it wasn't just noise right after a big update. 

In the last few patches, we've pulled burst from multiple sources and are back to a reasonable state, though still probably the higher end of acceptable. We're continuing to evaluate whether more changes should be made. Generally, we try to stay in the range where burst reliant classes (mages, assassins) can kill an out-of-position carry, but not so bursty where they can do so without hitting a full combo or when missing important skills. We also use mathematical analysis with historical comparisons (how much damage is a Talon combo in S11 vs S10 vs S6 etc). Another method is test cases like LeBlanc's time-to-kill vs a Vayne at typical builds. This accounts for shifts in target defenses as well, which can be missed when just looking at a damage dealer's theoretical numbers.

Snowball
Something we always watch closely is snowball, which tells us whether the game flows in a way where player decisions are impactful at all stages. One of our preseason goals was to avoid power creeping the item system, and increased snowball would be one of the worse symptoms of messing up because finishing items earlier than your opponent would give you an even bigger advantage. Snowball currently looks similar to the last few seasons, which is good.

Data aside, we know playing from behind in League can be very frustrating even if you still have a realistic chance of making a comeback. Being at a disadvantage will probably never feel good, but ideally comeback opportunities are present and viable enough to keep games fun and exciting to the end.

New Champs and VGUs
2020's champions were successful on both the satisfaction and appeal fronts. The themes and gameplay of Sett, Fiddle, Voli, Lillia, Yone, Samira, Seraphine, and Rell aimed for broad appeal among players within their applicable roles and archetypes. Launch balance was also significantly improved compared to 2019, with Samira as the only champ who launched significantly off-target. But we know that there are always ways for us to improve and iterate in 2021.

This year, we’re looking to improve the “good for League overall” side of new champs and VGUs. This includes things like strong and clear counterplay, very unique kits that justify each new addition to our roster, lower complexity on average, and more unique thematics to expand our IP even if less popular. It's worth noting that 2020 was definitely better than 2019 on this axis, but we want to go further in 2021.

Ranked
We launched a small bundle of Ranked upgrades in both preseason and start of ranked this year. Overall this has led to a smoother climb where players are facing more balanced teams, fewer smurfs, and consistent wins becoming more important than win streaks.

We did discover one issue at the start of season where MMR was adjusting too slowly, causing LP gains to be a bit lower than expected overall, and in some cases caused winstreaking players to experience negative LP gains (eg +12 for a win, -16 for loss). That issue was addressed with patch 11.2 last week. We’re going to continue monitoring all aspects of ranked to be sure that the experience is working as intended. We’re also going to be watching this year to see if these improvements have positive long term effects that make playing ranked a better experience over the course of a season.


Small Rammus Update Coming Soon
If you watched Wild Rift's section of Season 2021 Opening Day, you saw their plans for bringing Rammus to their game through a freshened up take on this classic champion from the early days of LoL. The Wild Rift and League PC teams share the same core design values so we approach projects like champion updates together so that we can craft the best champions for each game’s needs. With Rammus in particular we collaborated to upgrade the parts of his gameplay that had aged the most while keeping his iconic speedy core intact.

Generally we want LoL PC and Wild Rift to be as similar as possible, but in the end, we'd rather have differences between League PC and Wild Rift than force one game to use the other's design where it doesn't make sense. Looking at Rammus’s biggest areas for improvement on PC, we put together a small list of changes to keep his core play pattern intact but upgrade some of the spells (like R) that are most under delivering.

Goals:

Increase gameplay options for Rammus. Give a historically linear character more choices and interactions beyond just running at someone and taunting. Broadening gameplay should also help Rammus out in higher MMRs.
Giving Rammus players a distinctive high-point that properly reflects his high-speed fantasy.
Aim is to be power-neutral, with the understanding that these new tools probably buff him a bit at high MMR.
Improve clarity and satisfaction on both VFX and SFX

(New R)

(New R combo'd with Q)
(New R)
Changelist:

Puncturing Taunt (E)
Taunt duration is increased by 250% on monsters.
Cooldown :: 12/11.5/11/105/10 >>> 12 at all ranks
Taunt Duration :: 1.25-2.25 >>> 1-2 seconds
(Trimming some power here to account for his powerful new ultimate)
Soaring Slam (R)
Rammus leaps into the air and slams down at a target location, dealing magic damage and Slowing enemies for 1 second.
If Soaring Slam is cast while Rammus is in Powerball, enemies near the center are also Knocked Up and take Powerball's collision damage, ending Powerball's effect.
Rammus also generates 3 additional aftershocks at the target location, each one dealing a small amount of magic damage and refreshing the initial slow.
Soaring Slam deals 200% damage to turrets.
Soaring Slam's range increased based on Rammus' Move Speed.
Cooldown :: 100/80/60 >>> 120/100/80 seconds
We haven’t forgotten about the Tahm Kench small update that we teased a few months back. He’s still in our plans, just taking longer because there is more involved art and sound work to do to make him polished and ship worthy. Thanks for the patience on that one, we’ll update again when it's coming to live.



LP Gains in Preseason
We've made some pretty big changes to the LP system during preseason, some of which are easy to see (no more division promos) and some of which are more under the hood (improvements to our matchmaking algorithm). There have been some hiccups during the rollout of these systems, but that's why we do them during the preseason where they have a smaller impact. The end result is that we saw players' ranks being inflated, which resulted in lower LP gains in the short term. We made the necessary tuning and fixes so that everything will be correct with the seasonal reset in January.

With all of the changes for next season, we do expect LP gains and losses to be slightly smaller on average. We're planning to do a smaller ranked reset at the start of the season so you stay closer to the rank you've achieved this year, and removing divisional promotion series makes people climb faster, and benefit more from a win streak. The combination of these two changes would cause significant rank inflation, so in order for the ranking system to stay accurate, we needed to tone back the amount of LP gained per win. 


Preseason Followup Progress
Just recapping a bit of our progress and future goals for the preseason follow up work

Priority 1 - Overall game health and pacing.
Are game length, snowball, damage, and other high level aspects of the game in the right place.
We’re currently happy with snowball and game length
Burst damage was too high on release, and after changes in 10.24 it’s better but still a bit too high from where we want long term. We have another pass on burst reduction coming for 11.1
Priority 2 - Position and class balance as a whole
Are all classes viable and succeeding in the right ways?
Initially we had (as expected) a few strong (tanks, AP, some assassins) and weak (ADC and Enchanters) classes
Hopefully with the 10.25 changes, we are in a fairly balanced state here (buffs to ADC and Enchanters, nerfs to Tanks)
Priority 3 - Individual item choice, health, and satisfaction
Is every champion accessing the wide range of choices that we intend and are their builds satisfying and synergistic with their playstyle
Initial results seem to be successful for more than half of the roster, where champs are seeing expanded choice and satisfying builds
The first patches of spring will have a lot more individual item and champion shifts to realize the full potential of the new system


Preseason Followup
With the Preseason patch out for over a week now, I wanted to summarize our thoughts so far.

Disruption is about what we expected - With changes this big, we expected a lot of adjusting to do in the first weeks. So far, we're getting about what we expected, which is a lot of balance work needing to be done on items, runes, and champions. We're approaching it as quickly as we can, having done 2 balance hotfixes and prepping a large patch in the first two weeks alone.
Too much burst from items - Something that we saw on release and have been looking to bring back down is the amount of burst coming from item procs and actives alone. Because damage from items is often fairly reliable, we don't want to push too much power here and undermine the counterplay in champion kits.
Choice is mostly good - We're seeing most champions having a good range of viable options, and we want to continue broadening them in our upcoming patches. Players tend to gravitate towards their comfortable favorite picks, but if you correctly pick items to match the game state, there is a real advantage to be gained. If you missed it, our recently posted Item Balance Framework shows our goals for item choice diversity. We don't expect to hit those numbers on 100% of champions but we hope to get the vast majority of them.
Snowball - Early indicators, somewhat surprisingly, seem to show that snowball is slightly down in preseason compared to 10.22. Typically as players are learning new systems, snowball increases from wider skill differences in a game. We're not acting on this currently, because a small reduction in snowball is still within our ideal snowball state for the game.

Shop and Item Icons
There is a lot that we're happy with in the new shop interface so far, but we know that it takes a lot of getting used to for long time players. But there are still a lot of missing features and improvements that we're still planning to make:

updated_icons.jpg
Icon Clarity - We're taking multiple improvement passes on the new item icons in the next few patches to improve their clarity and readability (especially at small sizes). Notably, toning down the intensity and amount of detail in background elements and making sure the foreground and background have strong contrast for a clear silhouette.
Icon Similarity - Another icon improvement we are working on is to identify cases where two items have too much similarity and create confusion. Spelltheif's Edge and Hailblade are one example of items that we want to shift color and silhouette to make them more easily distinguishable from each other.
Icon Rendering - Purely for the visual quality and art style, we want to do a rendering pass on a few icons to bring them up to par. This makes them feel less "plastic" and more like powerful fantasy weapons.
Shop Scaling - We're currently working on the ability to scale the shop up and down to match each player's preferences. This should be available in the next few patches. Longer term we want to add more advanced scaling options like scaling the item icons specifically in the all item view.
Quick Access Panel Pin - A much requested feature that we are also working on for the spring is the ability to pin the quick access panels open (with boots, pots, and inventory).

All around, we are enjoying the preseason so far and working hard to respond to all of your feedback to make it the best it can be. 


Champion Complexity Philosophy
Recently the champions team has done an audit and refresh of our principles around champion complexity. At a high level, we want League to have champions across a wide range of complexity profiles to help us deliver the perfect champion for every player.

A few of our high level goals when it comes to champion complexity

We want champions to have a rough bell curve on the complexity spectrum with a few very low and a few very high complexity but most falling somewhere in the middle.
As a sub point to this we want to offer a range of complexity options for each class and position (eg a high complexity ADC and a low complexity ADC)
Theme and complexity are well matched - an assassin with elaborate ninja tools attracts a player that is usually looking for a challenge while a fluffy teddy bear would attract players looking for a simpler kit.
For VGUs, we want to keep a similar complexity level to keep the current players of the champion feeling at home with the new kit
Avoid extreme playing AGAINST complexity - Players shouldn’t have to complete a PHD thesis to understand how to play with or against a champion, there is a limit to how much we want your game disrupted by someone else’s pick. Worth noting - playing AS some champions can require this much research because it is an opt in experience.
We evaluate complexity using 3 axis:

Mechanical complexity
Low mechanical demands. Spells are straightforward and “just work”
Rammus, Warwick
Medium mechanical demands. Sometimes requires higher apm or timing sensitive combos
Kassadin, Kaisa
High mechanical demands. High APM and punishing combos that demand precise execution
Kalista, Azir
Knowledge Complexity
Low - Skills learned from other champs teach you how to play this one
Miss Fortune, Sona, Lux
Medium - Playing this champ repeatedly is needed to learn correct play
Yasuo, Draven, Thresh
High - Reading a guide needed to learn how to play this champ
Riven combos, Aphelios
Playing with/against complexity
Low - Other players don’t need to change their playstyle when this champ is in the game
Ahri, Jinx
Medium - The champ requires other players to be aware of new mechanics or strategies when it is in the game, they can still play the game normally for the most part
Thresh Lantern, Nocturne’s R
High - The champ requires other players to think about the game completely differently on a strategic level when it is present
Ivern, Proxy Singed
To put it in perspective, here is how we rate our champs this year:

Sett
Mechanical - Medium
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Fiddlesticks
Mechanical - Low
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - High
Volibear
Mechanical - Low
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Lilia
Mechanical - Medium
Knowledge - Low
Playing with/against - Medium
Yone
Mechanical - High
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - Medium
Samira
Mechanical - High
Knowledge - Medium
Playing with/against - Medium


How we assess our own work part 3: Personalization
Previous parts can be found here for Gameplay and Technology. Today we’re looking at Personalization. That means a range of non gameplay impacting content and how it’s acquired, things like skins, loot, event passes, eternals, etc. Personalization products have two main goals for us: They’re both a significant source of player satisfaction and the main way we pay our bills, funding maintenance and new development for LoL. 

Looking at the revenue side first we judge success through at things like:

What proportion of target players purchased this content? Target here meaning players we’d realistically expect could be interested in it (e.g. people who play the champion a new skin is for)
Did this content help diversify our portfolio? It’s beneficial to have revenue come from a wide range of offerings, that way if things change with one content type (e.g. shift in player interest in skins) we’re less affected as a company.
Did this content generate new revenue or just shift spending from one category to another? There are cases where shifting spending can still be really beneficial (e.g. if it comes with a meaningful increase in player satisfaction). All else being equal though launching something new that just moves spending around means work done for no gain.
What was the cost to create this new content, system or feature and how does that compare to revenue generated (return on investment).
And of course, total revenue earned
As said though revenue’s only one of our goals here. Our aim is to be successful as a business while also ensuring players who’ve bought something are really happy about it. Some things we consider to understand how we’re doing in that regard:

What proportion of target players purchased this content? In addition to being an indicator of revenue success this is also an important measure on the player satisfaction side too. Players buy things they like and skip things they don’t.
What do we see in surveys? What are players telling us about quality, price, ease of use etc?
Do players use what they’ve bought? With skins for example a key consideration is whether a player consistently uses that skin. Dark Star Jhin’s a really successful case, with an extremely high usage rate amongst purchasers, suggesting players who’ve bought it are really happy with it.
How does the content measure up to our clarity goals? Is it easy to identify a champion when they’re wearing a new skin? This is a topic we haven’t always done as well at as we’d like, more on our thinking there in the future.
How do players feel about the theming of a piece of content? E.g. would they love to see other champions get a skin in the same style?
Preseason
We’re in the home stretch for preseason now and are focused on bugs and balance. Our most recent large change was to lower item damage, especially damage coming from unique passives and actives, as part of a goal to keep overall item power levels the same as in the current system. 

We’ll be making some pre-emptive changes to specific champions in cases where we’re very confident we understand what the results of item changes will be (e.g. champs with unique interactions with crit or who are currently reliant on the mana from Sheen). For most champions though we’re going to wait and see where their exact power ends up once item builds stabilize, then adjust kits and items as needed.

Things we’ve tried in TFT that didn’t ship
Finally some things we’ve tried in the past in TFT and why they didn’t go live.



Set mechanics (e.g. Elemental Hexes or Chosen units)

Day/Night (Galaxies)
This was a system where each stage aligned to day, night or neutral (stage 1 = day, 2 = neutral, 3 = night etc). Celestial units were only available for purchase during the day and gained bonuses during the day. Same deal with Darkstar and night.
Once we got into playtesting it was clear this was overly restrictive, making traits useless or must play depending on phase timing. We want set mechanics to add more variance to TFT. This did the opposite.
Pre picked Chosen (Fates)
In this version at game start 5 units would get picked and communicated to players. Whenever those units showed up in the shop they would always be Chosen (e.g. every Nunu was Chosen Elderwood). Chosen gave double trait bonus but no other benefits.
As with Day/Night this was interesting on paper. It resulted in an optimization puzzle at the start of the game (which comps are good/bad) that was challenging but solvable however. That meant a lot of generally unfun mental work followed by everybody rushing the same comps. We wanted adaptability during a game, rather a clear right answer from game start, hence the move to the current Chosen model.


Next, a trait

Imperials
While we were developing TFT we were playtesting with a set of units and traits, most of which didn’t make it into the launch set. We call that prototyping set ‘set 0’.
Early on in set 0 Imperials were slated to have walls they could position as a trait bonus instead of the damage bonus they ended up with. The idea was that those walls would funnel unit movement and/or tank for a period at combat start.
We were still determining how TFT units moved in general at the time however. We weren’t confident adding things that messed that much with movement was the right call as a result, since we didn’t have a solid foundation yet (this was early enough that TFT was still using squares instead of Hexes!)
Might go back to this someday, Azir in Fates suggests there’s promise in these sorts of effects!

Finally, champ abilities

Mind Control
This felt really bullshit, even for a 5 cost ability (e.g. your carry flips around and murders your team). Potential power was extremely high, even at short durations, given chance to steal a spell cast.
Unclear if we can capture what’s cool about mind control while sufficiently constraining unfair cases (e.g. mind controlled units can’t cast). Mind control’s also not a really strong fit thematically with any current LoL Champions either. As a result of those factors we moved on to other challenges.
Bard ult
During both Set 0 and Rise of the Elements we tested a large AOE stasis for Bard since it’s one of the most distinctive parts of his MOBA kit.
It had a lot of downsides. It felt terrible when it mainly hit your own units. Even when it affected enemies only it was usually just a worse version of a stun. It created a lot of awkward standing around and waiting too.
It’s a really appealing idea concept though and one we’ll likely try again someday, probably in a way that keeps the visuals and fantasy but with pretty different gameplay details.

Preseason PBE Changelist
There is a lot of information and updates coming to PBE, so I wanted to take the time to compile all of our major updates in one place. This is not a comprehensive list of all minor tuning changes and bugfixes, just focusing on the major changes.

Support Mythics
Significant changes to support mythics to better serve enchanters
Added a new Mythic to create an aggressive alternative for enchanters
Imperial Mandate (temp name)
Ally Burst
2700 gold
40 Ability Power
200 Health
25 Ability Haste
100% Base Mana Regen
Coordinated Fire: Abilities that slow or immobilize a champion deal 60-100 bonus magic damage and mark them for 4 seconds. Ally champion damage detonates the mark, dealing 60-100 bonus magic damage and granting you both 30% movement speed for 2 seconds. (6s cooldown per enemy champion)
Mythic Passive: Grants all other Legendary items 15 Ability Power
Moonstone Renewer stats reworked to include AP and HP
Shurelya’s and Locket mostly unchanged so that tank and enchanter supports can use them
Tuning Pass
Eclipse nerfed significantly - Fixed a bug causing the damage proc to trigger twice. Damage 16 >>> 10% enemy max HP.
Duskblade - Fixed a bug causing the damage to trigger twice
Immortal Shieldbow mythic passive changed from resists -> AD and HP. The synergy of resists and lifesteal was pushing too far towards “tank carries” so we’re shifting to HP for surviving burst but not becoming too tanky.
Mikael’s Crucible stat line adjusted: HP removed, MR added. We wanted to offer a clearer option for supports into CC heavy, magic damage heavy teams.
Jungle items - Omnivamp reduced 10 >> 8%; Burn execute removed. The burn execute wasn’t creating the desired play of not needing to drag camps, so we’re removing it.
Tank Mythics - We’ve been exploring sharpening the resist profiles of the tank mythics, but have not yet committed to fully removing MR or Armor from some yet. We’re seeing clearer counters to full AD or AP comps, but the risk of overly limiting the choices is one we’re still evaluating. If at all possible, we want to avoid tank mythics becoming unchooseable because their stats are ineffective against the enemy team's damage type.
On-hit damage from Guinsoo’s and “on-hit knife” changed from magic to physical to keep armor the correct counter strategy
AP assassin and fighter items - added AP scaling to Hextech Rocketbelt and Night Harvester uniques so that they can scale similarly to other class mythics
Mythic icon animations! We wanted Mythic items to stand out visually when browsing the shop and feel like they had next level power. Not all of the animations are finished, but we added a significant number of them to the shop in the last week.
Added over 60 new and updated icons to the shop
Bugfixes - Overall we have fixed over 100 bugs in the first two weeks of PBE
Many item effects are now properly unique so they cannot stack (Quickblade please)
PBE_Week_2_Rec_Items_v2.jpg PBE_Week_2_All_Items_v2.jpg
Shop Features
Stat Filters - allow you to filter your current all items page by stats like AP, AP, Ability Haste and many others.
Quick Access Inventory - Coming very soon is a new quick access section for easier selling and selection of items in your inventory. We're currently positioning it beneath the consumables and boots panels as another always-accessible tool.
“Good against” recommendations are coming in as we get them set up to indicate which champions on the enemy team an item would be strong into.
Item Sets - we’re making steady progress on getting item sets up and running, these should be ready soon.




Preseason PBE
It has already been quite a crazy week with Preseason going to PBE. We are poring through tons of feedback and assessing any changes we should be making. If you missed them, here are our PBE feedback threads for Item Systems and The Shop and Icons.

Because we want to have Preseason on PBE for an extended period of time, it leads to a slightly more complex schedule so that we can also have PBE time for each patch (10.21, 10.22). It should look something like this:

Week 1 - Preseason
Week 2 - Patch 10.21
Week 3 - Preseason
Week 4 - Patch 10.22
Week 5 & 6 - Preseason
With the scope and impact of these item changes this preseason, we are dedicating extra time and resources to respond to feedback and resolve unforeseen issues. In a typical year, we begin early work on the next year’s preseason in December, shortly after the last one has shipped.

This time around we are specifically having the full team focus entirely on needed follow up for the Item System overhaul after launch. This means that the full team of Designers, QA, Engineers, and Artists will be available to make adjustments and improvements to any of the features we don’t think quite hit the mark. Without any other projects on their plate we hope for a fast follow up that gets the game into a fresh but stable state ASAP.

We want to always be reaching for big and impactful improvements to keep pushing League to be the best competitive game in the world, but we also are mindful of not undermining what is great about the game today.




How do we assess our own work part 2: Technology
Part 2 of a series here on how we assess our work on League of Legends. If you missed part 1 which covers Gameplay and want to read it you can find it here. Today we’ll be covering some of the technical side of things. Rather than running through team by team this time we’ll look at things by category.

First up, we’ve got the LoL servers themselves that run both the in game and out of game experiences for LoL. What we want to achieve here is a smooth and responsive experience. To assess how we’re delivering on that we look at measures like:

The portion of player ping that’s under our control (as opposed to due to geographical distance and ISP performance)
The reliability of a player’s connection to the server in terms of how often players get disconnected, variability in ping/packet loss etc.
How long patch downtime takes and how reliable our estimates for it are
Financial cost of running a LoL server
Player surveys
Second, we’ve got the out of game client (the bit you log into, go through champ select in, manage your friends list in etc). Our goal here (which we know is very much a work in progress) is to deliver an easy to navigate, responsive, reliable experience. There are a lot of similarities to how we assess the server category above as a result, though with focus on some particular player interactivity as well. Some key things we look at to judge our work:

How long it takes to perform various actions like time to lock in changes to Runes, time from clicking login to being able to queue up, time to load your profile etc.
Crash rates, both automatically logged and player reported
Player surveys into overall satisfaction with the client, particular pain points, desired improvements etc
Usage of different parts of the client e.g. how many players use the stats page, how much time players spend in the different sections of the client, awareness of new additions like the Worlds hub etc
The in-game client (where you actually play SR, ARAM, TFT etc) is fairly similar too, with again reliability and responsiveness what we’re targeting. To assess those we look at things like:

Loading screen time
Disconnect and crash rates
Player surveys on in-game reliability
Finally we also spend a moderate amount of time working on our own tools. I’ll skip the details here since it’s just an internal thing, we’re looking at stuff like developer efficiency, developer happiness, comparisons to other game dev toolsets etc though.



Preseason hits PBE next week!
While the preseason changes won’t go live until early November they will start hitting PBE next week so that we can a lot of extra testing in. We’re very excited to start getting broad feedback on how the item system overhaul, revised shop, tooltips changes etc feel to you folks!

As a reminder though a lot of this is still work in progress. We'll be on PBE for six weeks, rather than the four we normally do for preseasons. That means we’ll have lots of time to get everything done. It also means things are less finished than they’d normally be for PBE reveal too though. The direction is pretty solid, details like specific numbers on items, exactly how some icons look, how information is presented etc are still being worked on though. Some icons, visual effects and audio will also be using placeholders (art being reused while we wait for final versions to be finished). That means some things will be a bit rough, with balance issues to fix, shop functionality that still needs to get finished, some significant bugs we haven’t dealt with yet etc. Please do call out whatever feels missing or wrong, and if it's not on the long list of things we're already planning to fix up, we'll add it to our list and see what’s feasible :)

It’s also worth noting we’re deliberately taking some risks with some of the new item effects coming this preseason. We’re allowing some items to contribute in ways we didn’t previously allow the item system to do. We think that will work out well, it’s very possible we’re wrong though. If so we’ll balance, modify or if necessary even remove things as needed during the preseason follow up patches. 



TFT: Fates
While it’s still very early on in the set we’re really happy with how TFT: Fates has landed so far. Player response to the theme, signature units and trait/ability design seems really positive which is a good sign for our planned further development on Fates and future sets.

The Chosen mechanic also seems to very much be working as we’d hoped, adding a lot of game to game variety plus focal points for assessing teams or tracking combat. Assuming that continues to be the case we’ll be looking to have future set mechanics deliver those same sorts of impacts, though likely in different ways of course.

We’re also very happy with the state of balance so far, with what’s arguably the most varied meta on release we’ve seen for TFT so far. We’re planning on fairly light balance changes for now as a result, make sure we don’t swing too hard on anything to avoid overbuffing like we’ve done at times in the past.


Champion Gameplay Discovery Process
One of, if not the most difficult parts of gameplay design for a new champion is figuring out the high level direction in the early stages of development. These early decisions will affect the eventual possibilities and overall potential that the champion can achieve. Additionally, with a blank canvas comes the extra paralysis and indecision from the infinite possibilities. 

To help guide this early process, we have developed a simple framework that asks four key questions. If all of these questions are answered successfully, we have a good direction that we can move forward with.

Does your direction open a door to new gameplay spaces?
In a game of over 150 champions, each one needs to bring something new to the gameplay possibilities of League.
Is your theme resonant with the intended playerbase?
It’s critical that the theme matches the expectations and aspirations of the intended player. If we’re making a deadly assassin but have themed it as a fluffy duckling, there is a mismatch between the gameplay and theme.
Does your gameplay hook deliver on the theme?
For the game designers specifically, we want to check early on that our gameplay direction matches and enhances the chosen theme.
Does your gameplay direction have room to be satisfying and healthy?
There are many small facets of excellent champion design, but at the early stage we focus on these critical two. Will this gameplay lead to a satisfying playstyle that keeps players coming back? Does this direction degrade the gameplay of League by removing strategy, interaction, or counterplay? Sometimes there can still be counterplay issues introduced later in development, but this is a check to avoid fundamental problems at the initial direction.
On top of this framework, we have recently adopted an 8-week process that both helps us capture a wide range of potential options but also find a direction in a reasonable amount of time and not spin our wheels. This process is for a single gameplay designer, who is designing and prototyping throughout using our internal tools:

Preparation
Brainstorm widely with the larger team all possible exciting ideas that could fit the high level goals for the champ. Evaluate and review with the team leads which are our 3 most promising ideas.
Week 1-2
Prototype direction 1 and learn as much as we can about its potential (answer the 4 questions above)
Week 3-4
Prototype direction 2 and learn as much as we can about its potential
Week 5-6
Prototype direction 3 and learn as much as we can about its potential
Week 7-8
Choose our most promising direction and iterate on it to further refine the upsides and solve problems or remove risks
This process, by forcing us to try a few different ideas, helps us avoid finding an idea we like and becoming overly attached even if there are more exciting possibilities. It also helps us gain confidence when we choose a direction knowing that we have explored a number of other promising spaces.

Clash Build-a-Team V1
In this patch (10.18), we shipped our first iteration of "Build-a-Team" which you can find within the Clash tab. This basic set of features is intended to assist with making it easier for players to find others to play Clash with. Though it doesn't currently solve all the problems with finding teammates, we think it's a good start to at least find friends and friends of friends that are also interested in participating in Clash.

We're working to improve and expand Build-a-Team as Clash grows and move closer to a day when there are no more players thinking “I wish I could Clash, but I don’t have anyone to play with.”





How do we assess our own work part 1: Gameplay
Today I wanted to start covering something a bit different, sharing some details with you all on how we judge our own work. My hope is that makes it a bit easier to understand our approach on some things, gives more shared context for future conversations and is potentially just of general interest to a few people too. This time we’ll cover MOBA gameplay focused teams. Future posts will then look at TFT, personalization/cosmetics, tech, some aspects of marketing and player communication etc.

These posts will be broken down roughly by team though not in a way that's fully representative of our internal structure since I've focused more on teams that have very player facing impacts (e.g. game balance) and less on those that are more internal facing (e.g. tools development). It also doesn't cover some aspects of League of Legends that are handled by other parts of the organization (e.g. Esports is a separate part of the company to the LoL team, chat moderation is done by a cross game group as is player support etc). It also doesn't cover all the things we track, just the key points.

With that out of the way first up we've got Champion Team. Here we're looking at how players engage with a new champion or VGU, how that release impacts the wider LoL ecosystem and how maintainable the new/updated champ is. To assess those things we look at measures like:

Play rates for a champion, especially how many average games a player puts into them if they play them in the first place (depth of appeal with mains). How many people play them (breadth of appeal) is also of interest, though not to the same extent as depth. Focus is on long term interest, not just interest around launch time.
We're not aiming for every champion to have high breadth and depth of appeal, having some niche champs who are really loved by their players is fine. We don't want champs are neither broad nor deep though (champs few people play and those who try them don't play them much)
Player surveys on the champion's theme, personality, art quality etc
Tracking rate of balance changes and bug fixes needed post champion release
Internal assessments on complexity, technical risks, efficiency of development etc
Degree to which the champion broadens our IP, letting us tell different types of stories, fleshing out factions, better representing under represented groups (e.g. our roster still skews towards male champs even though our more recent releases have had a better gender mix).
With the Summoner's Rift Team (sometimes referred to as the balance team, though they do a lot more than just balance) we're focused heavily on providing a compelling, fair and deep gameplay experience. That means game balance, choice structures, counterplay, creation of highs and lows, variety of play experience etc. Key things we look at to assess that are:

Champion Balance for existing champions (not new releases, champion team are responsible for a champion's numbers on launch).
Game pacing, looking at things like how snowbally games are, when towers fall, amount of PVP action etc
Player surveys on things like champion frustrations, rate of gameplay change, champion damage output and tankiness etc
Correlations between gameplay changes and levels of player engagement including looking at player desire to queue up for the 5 different positions in LoL
Balance and meaningful choices for supporting systems like Items and Runes
Our next gameplay team is the Game Analysis Team, also known as the playtest team. Their role is to be a source of expertise on LoL, able to provide strong analysis, repeated playtesting on content followed by actionable feedback and demonstration of what high skill play on upcoming content, features or adjustments probably looks like. To assess that work we look at:

Ability to predict impact of balance changes based off internal playtesting and theorycrafting (SR team is responsible for making balance changes, GAT for providing predictions on their impact which SR team then determines whether/how to act on)
How predictions fare for new champ/VGU launch balance and change in balance over time as players become familiar with the kit
Ability to quickly identify problems during development of content and systems letting teams working on those features avoid wasted work going down the wrong path (e.g. a new game mode's most optimal way of being played is extremely unenjoyable, leading to a no win situation for players)
Overall value provided to the teams whose work they analyze
Up next is the Competitive and Meta Systems Team. This is a group that are focused on some of the around game experiences like competitive rankings, some aspects of progression systems, some areas where player behavior and gameplay intersect etc. To judge success here we look at things like:

Ranked engagement like how many players play this season versus last, how does their engagement change over the course of the season etc
Clash engagement, including how many players try Clash and how many return for subsequent tournaments
Matchmaking quality which includes how small the MMR differences between players matched together is, time taken to match players, proportion of players who get their first choice of role, autofill rates etc
Player Behavior metrics around things like AFK rates, frustration with negative behaviors from other players (note: this has only recently been taken on by this team, another group was previously responsible for it)
Player sentiment on features like Ranked, Clash, Matchmaking etc
Finally we've got the alternate game modes team who are responsible for MOBA experiences that aren't standard Summoner's Rift. That means ARAM and event modes like URF, One for All and Nexus Blitz. When looking at work in these spaces we consider:

Play rates of those other modes, both average engagement and spikes in engagement
Player sentiment on alternative modes, including for event modes whether said modes are a key part of what excited players about an event (whether or not they played a lot of it was it something they were excited for?)
How much alternative modes drive new engagement (players coming back after an absence or playing more because of the mode) versus how much they just move hours from one mode to another
Quest Skins
In the coming weeks, you may start to see the phrase “Quest Skin” floating around, so we wanted to provide some context around what that means. We are testing a new skin type (not a new skin tier with a different price) that will be purchasable in the near future. It’ll have some new features with specific technical needs which is why we need to have it on PBE and tested in advance. It won’t be launching this patch or in the immediate future, but stay tuned for more information!



Balanced Champion Releases Progress
We’ve been committed to more balanced Champion and VGU releases this year with faster follow up when it’s needed. With Lillia and Yone both released, it seems like a good time to check in on how we think we’ve done since we made the commitment.

Fiddlesticks - Good - Overall this was a great first try at the strategy. Fiddle released slightly underpowered and we gave him an appropriate buff that brought him into viability but not an OP state. We’ve done a few patches here and there after his released, but those were focused on feel improvements or adding interest to his effigy passive. There was a brief tank fiddle moment, but we reacted quickly and balanced it without damaging his primary AP playstyle.
Volibear - Mixed - Voli had a fairly smooth launch, and he released pretty close to balanced initially. In response to some slower winrate growth than we expected and a misestimation on our part of his value in professional play we ended up over buffing him in patch 10.11’s hotfix. At the time it looked like the right amount of power, but eventually this led to us having to repeatedly nerf him over the last few patches. Next time we will take it slower on big buffs while players are still mastering a new release.
Lillia - Great (so far) - Lillia was the combination success so far of very close to balanced on release and an effective wait and see approach. She’s a pretty nuanced and skillful champion, so even with some fairly low numbers on launch, we wanted to give the community the right amount of time to learn her. We still may need to apply some slight buffs or nerfs in the long run, but as far as launches go this is ideal.
Yone - Good (so far) - As you’ve likely seen, we recently nerfed Yone in patch 10.17. This is an expected part of the process and we’re happy so far with how close Yone has been to our targets so far. Time will tell if we need to do more, but we’re generally seeing healthy patterns from Yone with the counterplay we intended (fair counterplay can be challenging to design correctly for the assassin class).
Overall this has been a big improvement over the previous period with many champs needing extended nerfing (Aphelios, Sett, etc). I’m personally happy with the progress so far and we’re committed to improving here even more.



Preseason Follow Up Plans
This preseason’s item system overhaul is one of the largest projects we have ever undertaken. We’re expecting a lot of disruption, so we are preparing well in advance for a lot of follow up. We will have both the balance and systems designers monitoring the full range of systems in the game to see what needs tuning in the preseason and spring. Some of the important things we often look at to make sure that the game systems are in a healthy place are:

Game length - goal is no change here (happy with the roughly 30 min average and chances for 50-60 min epic games)
Snowball - our sweet spot for 15 minutes in is 40% even, 35% small lead, and 25% large lead
Laning phase duration - we evaluate this with first tower take, which is ideally around 13-14 minutes depending on the skill level of the game
Position Power - We look at the ability for each position (mid, top, etc) to carry the game and make sure that things haven’t become imbalanced
Class balance - When looking at champion balance, if we see a whole class of characters like tanks, assassins, enchanters as strong or weak it usually indicates that there is a systemic problem underneath it.
And many many more that we will be monitoring
Additionally, we’re developing a balancing framework for items like the one we use for champions to help us be responsive, accurate, and unbiased in our item balancing. This will be essential in us hitting our goals for item choice and build diversity which requires both good choice designs and very tight balance.





Spirit Blossom
It’s been great to see so many people enjoying Spirit Blossom so far. It’s an event we’re really happy with that’s been a long time in the making for many teams. While we can’t make every event this comprehensive we’re certainly aiming to do more events like this when we can. We’re also spending a lot of time looking at feedback around particular event features, understanding things like how much different groups of players care about narrative, different types of rewards, cinematics, meta systems like Spirit Bonds etc. Based off that we’ll adjust what goes into future events to try and deliver more of what really resonates with people. Early sentiment suggests that the Spirit Bonds system for example has been quite popular, which increases our interest in trying other between game thematic systems for events.

Spirit Blossom’s Effect on Champion Play Rates
Another thing that’s been particularly noticeable for Spirit Blossom versus other events is how much it’s affected champion play rates. Normally we see a bit of increased popularity for champions featured prominently in an event but not a huge amount. This time however we’ve seen substantial increases in play rate for all the relevant champions. The chart below shows how a champion’s popularity has changed comparing this patch to the last one.

The horizontal axis is how many people are playing a champion. The vertical access is how many games on a champion the average player plays on them. Both axes are relative to average rates for all champions as represented by the median lines. That means that Kindred for example has gone from being a champion played by fewer people than average, with players who played Kindred an average amount, to being a fairly broadly played champion with a lot more play than average. Yasuo has then seen even more people playing him, but fewer average games per player, assumedly reflecting both that there are only so many chances to play Yasuo to go around and that some Yasuo players are taking the chance to player other champions for the event.

Spirit_Blossom_Champion_Breadth_Depth_v2.jpg
Source: All games played on 10.15 in all LoL regions except China

TFT: End of the Galaxies set draws near
We’re getting close to the end of the Galaxies set now, with a bit more than a month remaining. We’ll have a lot of details in both video and written form to share soon, covering things like lessons learned from Galaxies, what’s up next for TFT, how we’re thinking about different features and player desires etc. We’ve also got the first end of set tournament coming up soon as announced back in April, with the finals taking place on the 3rd and 4th of September with players from regions across the globe.

tft_qualificationprocess_graphic_v3_1_NA_OCE_v2.jpg
We hope you've enjoyed TFT's first take on Sci-Fi and we’ll almost certainly try sci-fi again someday, maybe as a return to the Galaxies setting or maybe with a different tone and approach. Next up though we’ll be exploring a different theme that we’re really excited to see your reactions to.


Context on VFX updates
We’ve been rolling out visual effect updates (VFX) to a variety of champions over the past few months, but we see some players a bit confused with what these projects goals are.

Clarity and quality focus - These updates are meant to target our oldest, least clear, and noisiest VFX in the game. We’re hoping to little by little bring all spell effects up to our current standards.
Done in spare cycles - These have been passion projects taken on by a few of our skin and champion devs when they have small amounts of time in between their bigger work. They have been really going the extra mile to sneak in small art upgrades for the game, even when it’s not part of their core job. They also read and respond to as much feedback as they can, so don’t hesitate to give it, but be respectful.
Don't prevent future VGUs - This work doesn’t affect our decision making process for future VGUs, skins, or other big projects. Don’t stress if you feel a champ got cheated out of a bigger project, that won’t happen.
Recent High MMR Matchmaking Changes
For the absolute top of the ladder (we're talking the very top of Challenger), we have to make some special matchmaking considerations to ensure that they can find a match, especially during off-peak hours. In the past, we had to set this manually, which meant that it was slightly different for each region and required manual tuning region by region every season to get the right balance of match quality and queue times.

Last week we implemented a change that automated that process, which gives us several notable improvements. The main gain is that our settings can now adapt to how many ultra-high MMR players are available - so we can more tightly tune for better matches at peak hours, and when wait times would start to get insanely high at off peak, the system will adjust to make matches happen. Also, we can make sure each region is behaving similarly, and then adjust as we find improvement areas over time.

In the end we’ve reached a state where matchmaking is more optimized than it has ever been, but when we deployed the new system, our initial estimates for the correct tuning were slightly off. We had to adjust them over the first few days and are not happy that we caused some temporary pain. In the future we’re going to try and better estimate our launch tuning with new features and be faster with follow up if we need it.

We’ll continue to look for small improvements like this, and we have a pretty exciting set of matchmaking and ranked upgrades coming for the preseason!

More Preseason Info Next Time
In 2 weeks, instead of gameplay thoughts, we’ll be diving into more info about our major Item System overhaul this preseason. We’re going to talk about some of the fundamental stat changes we’re working on and break down a few goals we’ve set for each class of items (Marksmen, Fighter, Tank, etc).


These posts will often contain talk about future work we're doing, or planning to do, that isn't yet guaranteed to ship. The nature of the work could change or, depending on what we discover, projects mentioned may get delayed or even stopped. If you'd like to see a Tweet whenever a new one of these posts goes up: https://twitter.com/RiotMeddler

Nexus Blitz
Nexus Blitz should be live next week with patch 10.15! We’re really excited to see what you all think of this updated version, both art and gameplay. It’s going to be out for two patches and our plan is to also have it return in the future again for other events. We’ll continue to work on Nexus Blitz over time, so would love your feedback on it to help with that. Our plans and when we could act on what sorts of feedback are as follows:

Patch 10.16 - We’ll be in a position to make balance and pacing changes. If you’ve got thoughts on things like class/champ balance, snowball rates, game length, frequency of sudden death etc we’ve got a brief window where we could act on them here. We’ll also be using this time to see if we can get Mordekaiser working for Nexus Blitz, with a small chance Ivern also gets enabled.

Next time Nexus Blitz returns - For Nexus Blitz’s next outing (exact date still to be determined) we’ll have the opportunity to act on larger feedback. Things like event design, rewards, the mechanics of the sudden death walking nexus fight etc would be feasible to change on this sort of longer timeframe.

New Thematic Lines
Speaking of feedback as we discussed last month player sentiment on a new theme, and its potential in the future, are some of the key factors that determine whether we return to a theme again or not. We’ve got a few new skin/event thematics coming in the second half of this year, starting with Spirit Blossom in 10.15. If there are particular elements of those themes you really like, champs you think would be fantastic in them, ways they miss the mark that can be addressed etc please do let us know. We’re looking to flesh out our stable of themes we return to regularly to make sure we’re providing content for a wide variety of tastes and to avoid overusing our existing popular skin lines. Understanding which of our efforts are resonating with you folks, which are rough but have potential, and which just aren’t of interest to you helps a lot with that.

Tooltips
On the clarity side of things we’re just about to start rolling out updates to our in game tooltips. Our goals there are to:

Standardize how we present information to make it easier to process quickly (get away from every champion having a different approach for example)
Cater to two different audiences (those who just want to understand high level functionality quickly and those who want all the details)
Make better use of color, symbols etc, particularly when it comes to updating tooltips that were written years ago when we didn’t have as much functionality as we do now.
Lillia will be the first champion to get the updated format after which we’ll regularly update older champions until we’ve got the whole roster addressed. That will involve changes like:

Adding the ‘Hold Shift to see more info’ functionality to all champs (eventually some items too), ensuring things like ratios are consistently in the expanded version.
Cleaning up unnecessarily wordy sentences, including places where it’s not clear whether mechanics are being discussed or just theme.
Adopting consistent standards for gameplay elements (it should be clear what we mean when we say ability, versus spell, versus skill etc and isn’t always at present)
Etc
As some of you may recall (or may have assumed from the way we’ve got things like Shift for more details functionality on only some champs) this isn’t our first attempt to unify and improve our tooltips. Past efforts got hindered in part by a desire to overhaul a lot of our tech and to roll all the changes out at once. To make sure things work out this time we’ll instead be rolling things out over many patches and going back to integrate new functionality rather than having everything wait until it's ready.

Disruptive Behavior Reduction Phase 1
Hot on the heels of last week's Behavioral Systems update, our first set of changes are coming in the next patch, 10.15. They’re just a start, but we wanted to get some improvements into the game quickly while we are actively working on bigger improvements.

Intentional Feeding
Detection - We’re tuning our current systems to be more strict in classifying behavior as inting. We still don’t want to punish players for a bad game but we think there is room between our current thresholds and where a player having a bad game would be. Specifically our detection will be roughly 25% more aggressive so if it previously required a 0-100 game it now will require a 0-75 game. (It's more complex than KDA, numbers are intentionally unrealistic to avoid being taken literally.).
Penalties - These are staying unchanged for now. Players detected inting are given an immediate 14 day ban that becomes more severe if they are repeatedly detected.
Leavers and AFK
Detection - Detection improvements for intentional idling, especially cases where a player is moving occasionally to avoid the current afk detection systems.
Penalties - When a player leaves or AFKs without reconnecting, they will receive an automatic loss even if their team won the game.
Penalties - We’re going to be assigning leaver punishments more strictly. It will take significantly fewer AFKs to begin receiving queue time penalties. The more a player leaves, they will have increasing queue time penalties.
Next Steps we’re going to continue upgrading our detection systems
Understand more complex cases, like when a player starts off playing normally but at some point in the game decides to start intentionally feeding.
Finding cases where players have found ways around the current detection and are “treading the line” to not get caught while still ruining games (like the occasional movement case we're fixing for 10.15).
Revamping the penalty systems with a wider variety of penalties that'll allow us to take action earlier while still being fair, and to create a greater degree of granularity in terms of how penalties for different types of game-ruining behaviors ramp up in severity on repeat offenses.
Any-Rank Flex Queue
We’re excited to have this much needed update for Flex Queue coming to live servers in patch 10.15! After seeing the success of an unrestricted rank system in Clash, we’re applying the same approach to Flex Queue. Queue with any of your friends, no matter their rank! Similar to Clash, the system will use a weighted average that prioritizes the higher skill players.

On the whole we think this better serves the queue to be more accessible to groups that want to test their skills even if it creates more games with a wide spread of ranks.



Tahm Kench Small Update
We’ve got a small gameplay update in the works for Tahm Kench. It’s still a good number of patches away, but the game designer working on it, CaptainGameplay, has some goals and a preview of our current direction:

“Let's talk Kench. It's no secret he is one of the champions most famous for being weak for the vast majority of players because his kit is so strong for pros. With a semi-global ultimate that requires him to plan map rotations ahead of time with his allies, and his marque Devour that both negates opponent playmaking and enables his allies to position in ways that would otherwise be incredibly dangerous, Tahm has a lot of power that specifically requires the highest degree of coordinated play. On live, this means when he ever rises above 44-45% win rate (in support) he takes over the professional scene.

In testing right now, we have moved Devour to his Ultimate slot, where it gets to be significantly more powerful as a spell cast and therefore less dependent on allies playing around it. It will both deal more damage to any enemies you may manage to eat, as well as better protect allies you are trying to save by granting them a shield and slowing you less. With a longer cooldown and no access to the ability before 6, opponents should also be able to capitalize on it's down times. The open W is becoming a new engage tool that will similarly be less coordination reliant than his live engage ultimate. Think a faster, shorter range personal Abyssal Voyage that damages and knocks up enemies on arrival. We are also taking this time to adjust his sustained combat pattern and give him some cool tricks. We are trying out a self heal on Tongue Lash, as we've identified that his combat pattern tends to be very one-and-done due to the all or nothing nature of Thick Skin's defenses, and we are trying to encourage offensive uses of Devour by allowing Tongue Lash to once again stack An Acquired Taste - as well as letting you use it to Devour enemies at range who are fully stacked.

The current timeline for this work is after our worlds patch, to avoid potential upheaval to Summer Split/Worlds and to give us the most time to tune and adjust him before the professional scene picks back up."

-Riot Captain Gameplay

Reducing Autofill
Earlier in the year we made the autofill parity feature, focused on ensuring it resulted in fair matchups between teams. Since then the team has mainly moved onto other projects, but we've still been working on smaller-scope optimizations to autofill aimed more at the individual player experience. We recently found a minor but successful change that increases our weighting to preference secondary position over autofill. The result is that you should see about the same amount of games in your primary position, a few more games in your secondary, and even less autofill.

For all regions combined:

BEFORE: 91% Primary,4.2% Secondary, 4.8% Autofill

AFTER: 90% Primary, 7% Secondary, 3% Autofill

And here’s a graph showing our data for NA:

Pref_Assignment_Rates_Ranked_Solo_2020.png
Blue line is primary position, orange is secondary position, red is autofill.

Ranked Seeding Moved to Preseason
Ranked Seeding is the feature we discussed in our last Ranked blog, which would use MMR data from other queues to provide an initial ranked MMR when players are just starting out in ranked. We’re seeing a few more challenges than expected translating normal MMR into ranked MMR due to the nature of the two queues. The normal queue has a significantly larger population of players that includes many who never make it to ranked or just opt out. This creates a MMR distribution with both a different shape and different center points. We’re going to do the necessary work to correctly translate between the two MMRs so we’re seeding ranked players much closer to their skill level—the core goal of the project. In short, it’s not coming soon as we originally planned, we are aiming to include it with a bunch of other features (like division promo removal) in the preseason.

Little Legends ARAM Removal on Hold
While this isn't strictly a gameplay topic, we wanted to share a followup to Meddler's post last week, which some of you might have seen on Meddler's twitter by now. We're putting the plan to remove Little Legends from ARAM and refund them for players who haven't played TFT on hold for now. We'll get back to you when we have an alternative or modified approach to share.


A Recap
This year RiotScruffy and I are alternating posts. He’ll cover in depth balance and other gameplay topics every second week (Quick Gameplay Thoughts). I’ll cover a wider range of issues in the other weeks (Quick LoL Thoughts). My posts will sometimes contain gameplay content too, though usually won’t.

Removing Little Legends from ARAM
In patch 10.15 we’ll be removing Little Legends (LLs) from ARAM. Key factors behind that:

LLs on ARAM meaningfully undermine visual clarity, with the motion and brightness they add making it harder to track champions and their spells. We’d hoped to avoid that being an issue by having LLs usually avoid central areas where combat happens. That hasn’t been sufficient however.
Very few players have been interested in acquiring LLs specifically for ARAM use. While some players who’ve acquired them for TFT do use them on ARAM almost no one has purchased them for ARAM specifically. Overall player sentiment about their presence on ARAM is also quite low.
We’ve been constraining our LL designs because they also need to exist on ARAM. That means limitations to things like silhouettes (need to ensure they never read as champion), size, emotes (animations shouldn’t look like spellcasts) etc. Making them purely a TFT feature gives us more freedom when creating future LLs to do cool things.
Having said that, there are some players who have very much enjoyed the presence of LLs on ARAM. For those of you in that situation our apologies. We think this is the right call for ARAM players overall, we realize for some of you it will be a downgrade in your experience though. For those of you who bought LLs specifically for ARAM who haven’t played TFT we’ll be refunding the RP spent on them. Details about how that will work:

Refunds will be applied to accounts that own LLs but have never played TFT. It doesn't look at specific LL usage, it's an account-level "TFT yes/no" flag.
The refund process will start when 10.15 goes out and should be finished before patch 10.16.
It will remove all Little Legends from your account and refund the RP spent on them, both the LLs you used on ARAM and the ones you didn't.
Non RP LL unlocks (e.g. Twitch Prime rewards) will not be refunded.
How we assess skin line themes
When we assess a group of skins that share a theme we look at four things:

How did the skin perform relative to expectations? We don’t expect a skin for a niche champion to be acquired by as many players as one for a really popular champion, so this is about acquisition relative to the base champion’s popularity. Skin acquisition equates to both player happiness (who liked the skin enough to get it) and revenue for Riot.
Player surveys about the theme. Are players more interested in seeing this theme return than most other themes? This is about the theme’s potential, rather than the specific skins we just released using the theme. It’s not a survey of players who acquired the skins, but players in general.
Did this skin release get more or less support from us than usual? This means things like trailers, prominent space in the client, overall amount of time taken building the skins relative to others at the same tier etc.
How many more champions exist that players are telling us they think would fit well into this theme? A skin line might be well loved and perform well, but if we’ve used up all the good fits it makes more sense to focus on other themes instead.
Based off those factors we’ll decide whether to continue with the skin line as a high profile theme, continue with the theme as a regular set of skins, rework the theme to try and better deliver on the promise we and players think it has, or vault the theme (no plans for further skins).

Some concrete examples:

High Noon - The original High Noon skins didn’t perform particularly well. We believed though that there was a lot of potential in them so rebooted the skin line with the 2018 release. That release didn’t have a large amount of support (limited publishing assets like trailers etc). It performed very well though and players gave us really positive feedback about it. As a result we’ve made High Noon a higher visibility/priority skin line since.
Sugar Rush - We’ve tried Sugar Rush a couple of times and unfortunately it’s done poorly in both cases. Sugar Rush 2019 for example was in the bottom 10% of skin lines versus expectations for the year. Reluctantly we’ve decided to vault Sugar Rush as a result. It’s possible that there are approaches that would work for a meaningful number of players, we think spending time on other options looks a lot more promising at this point though.
Star Guardian - Started off strong and continued strong. People were excited for these skins immediately, a lot of players acquired them and those that did use them a lot, suggesting that they’re favorites relative to other skins for the champs that have them. Very few skin lines perform so consistently well. We still want to make sure we don’t return to themes like SG too quickly, bring a somewhat different spin on things each time, force the theme onto a champ that doesn’t make sense etc. It’s a great example of a theme that seems to have lasting appeal though provided we make the right choices with it.
Debonair - Debonair has had very mixed performance. Some skins have done, others have very much missed the mark. We think there’s potential there though, so we’re exploring a possible reboot for a 2021+ Debonair line, along with possible reboots to a lot of other older skin thematics. One thing we’ve identified is that Debonair’s too thin at present. Well dressed champions is a good starting point, but we need more to deliver a strong skin (e.g. High Noon benefited from getting the Hellfire/Demons/Angels elements added to its Old West base). No guarantees Debonair specifically comes back, we expect to return so some older thematics with new takes next year though.


Update here on how our efforts to address game-ruining behavior is going. As mentioned previously, we’ll be talking about this work on a monthly basis.

Previous discussion in case you missed it.

Updates on Previously Mentioned Work
The report notification changes have been performing as hoped, with visibility at peak times into how the system is working roughly doubling in most regions and quadrupling in Korea. Visibility into penalties being applied won’t solve issues all by itself but is an important pairing with better detection and penalties. Example of that for NA in this graph:

Live_Change_Notifications_v1.jpg
Reporting in champ select is tentatively on track for patch 10.14 (might end up in 10.15). Muting in champ select is currently scheduled to appear at the same time as reporting.

New Work and Learnings
We’ve been running post-game surveys about in game behavior, building up a picture of how common different behaviors are and which behaviors players find the most frustrating.

Example of what the resulting summarized data looks like:

Frustrating_Behavior_Graph_v1.jpg
Results so far match the feedback we’ve been getting on social media from players, giving us confidence that the issues already under discussion are representative of wider player feeling as well. Intentional feeding/afking and other in game sabotaging behavior are clear outliers. As a result, we've decided to dedicate more resources toward addressing specifically those issues.

We’ve also been combing through our existing int/afk detection and penalties with the following conclusions:

We rely too much on behavior in a single game very clearly crossing the line of what’s unacceptable. That means players can skirt the line repeatedly in many games without being penalized. We need to put a lot more focus on cross-game behavior as a result.
Our penalties for AFKing rely too much on queue penalties (like when a player dodges in champ select). We should be using other more significant penalties more often (e.g. temp bans) for players repeatedly afking/quitting.
Our detection algorithms are too basic, over-relying on things like raw number of deaths per game and player reports. We should also be taking context into account a lot more when it comes to how we interpret certain actions. If a player DCs immediately after a failed surrender vote for example we should be confident they’re deliberately quitting even if their stats or other recent behavior don’t look out of line. Or, if a player says they’re going to AFK or feed, then does so, we should be much more confident in penalizing them quickly even if they don’t have a history of such actions (it’s very clear it’s deliberate).
Next Steps
We intend to ship a number of experiments and tweaks (like champ select reporting and muting) throughout this year. The next batch of these changes are in early stages of development right now, but we hope to share more details of our plans in a /dev post next month.

We look forward to talking more then!

Our Followup Process
With the Bot position changes in 10.11 some items and a large group of champions got changes so we’re going to be watching for anything unexpected and following up if we need to. We’re also releasing the Volibear VGU this patch, which will require close monitoring for follow up as well. Volibear is our second release (after Fiddlesticks) with us committing strongly to more balanced champions on release, so don’t expect any fast buff reactions unless he is clearly very weak.

I thought this is a good opportunity to give some more general insight into how we monitor and follow up on bigger or more risky changes. Our current follow up method has four important check points for if a champion or systems change has landed with the intended power and gameplay:

3 days after the patch (friday, also today) - Early numbers and play pattern check, if things are clearly out of line or there are exploitative gameplay patterns already gaining traction, we would hotfix.
In the next patch - By this time we have almost 1 week of data to observe the power level and some mastery of the champion, item or rune. We would at this point do a set of changes with the goal of fine tuning it to a state that we think could be balanced and healthy long term.
After Professional Play - This is typically 3-4 weeks after the changes are first put in the game, and we have to pay a lot of attention to this. Very commonly pro teams are using a champion or system in a completely different way than most players because of their extreme skill and coordination. This checkpoint is a big signal for if we need to do mechanics changes (instead of just tuning) because the design is exceptionally strong or just creating a poor experience in the pro game.
After players have mastered it - The time frame on this can vary depending on how long it takes for the player base at large to understand and optimize whatever piece of the game we’ve changed. This is typically 1-3 months after release, and we can be fairly certain that we won’t need to come back and fix anything if we like the state of things at this point.
10.12 Systems Changes
The big focus of last time’s Gameplay Thoughts was a package of systems changes coming into the game in 10.12 aimed at:

Enhancing and pushing some elemental rifts into slightly more unique gameplay
Improving low satisfaction or overly narrow runes
Mid Position Tweaks
With the focus in 10.12 following up on the Bot changes and shipping the systems package, we are getting early testing of how we can effectively bring down the mid position power in ways that also improves the overall game flow. Our current iterations are mixing two strategies:

Slight resource reduction (gold/XP)
Increased wave presence to make roaming slightly more of a missed opportunity
These changes will take a bit of time to tune and get right, so we’re not expecting them to ship in 10.12.

Elemental Rift Touch Up for 10.12
We’ve been slow burning on a few light improvements to some Elemental Rifts. After having some time to see the Elemental Rifts gameplay settle in this season, we’re very happy with how environmental changes add new mastery points and freshness without generating particular advantage to one team or another - it’s how well you use them. Based on that, we’re adding a few more elements to some rifts to enhance their gameplay possibilities:

Infernal Rift - Destruction of walls opens new pathing, doubling down on this idea.
Additional Blast Cones spawn in the jungle and alcoves
Cloud Rift - Whirlwinds in the jungle enhance speed and rotations
Additional Scryers Blooms spawn in the jungle
Wind speed areas now have increased effect for champions out of combat
Runes and Summoner Spells for 10.12
We’ve also looked through runes and summoner spells for improvements and discovered some opportunities. We’ve targeted runes and summoners that are weak, too narrow, or underdelivering on satisfaction causing them to have very few users.

Keystone Runes
Guardian - the goal here is to ease up the usability of this rune significantly by making the area that you can protect allies much larger. Additionally, we’re changing the trigger from “any damage” to a significant burst of damage so that you have fewer cases where it triggers on tiny chip damage.
Predator - Overall we’re simplifying and removing some restrictions like the long channel time, reducing the cooldown significantly and lowering the damage. The end result we hope is that this remains a strong option for ganking junglers, but also can find use with top fighters and supports.
Minor Runes - We’re looking to tune and tweak a handful of minor runes.
Unflinching - Simplifying to a more available tenacity option. 10% tenacity increased to 30% at low health.
Approach Velocity - Removing the ally element which hasn’t delivered on the intended core idea for CC heavy champs to capitalize on their picks. New direction - movement speed towards CCed enemies, doubled when the CC is applied by yourself.
Ghost - Ghost overall seems like a weak summoner, so we’re taking the opportunity to buff it but also look for ways to improve its satisfaction and differentiation from other summoners. We’re still iterating on this, but currently changes like removing the “ramp up” are on the table.
Bot and Mid Progress
After testing our first round of Bot lane changes, we’re fairly happy with the initial spike, but we think there is an even better direction that focuses entirely on defensive power instead of splitting it between offense and defense. In the end, we think that the core pain point bot lane players are having isn’t a lack of damage, but survivability and self reliance. We’re hoping that a mix of base health and movement speed, give the correct small nudge in terms of surviving burst and dodging incoming spells. The current set of changes we’re testing (not final) are:

Base HP +30 (across bot lane marksmen)
HP per level +2
Zeal MS: 5% >>> 7%
PD MS: 5% >>> 7%
RFC MS: 5% >>> 7%
Shiv MS: 5% >>> 7%
Hurricane MS: 7% >>> 9%
Our current goal is to ship these bot lane changes for 10.11 if we can get confidence that they’re balanced and producing the right outcomes. Work on mid lane hasn’t yet started, we will pick that up after we finish up the bot position buffs.


This week I figured it would be good to focus on inting/afking, given it’s been a topic of quite a lot of conversation recently. It’s also something we should be talking about more, since it’s an ongoing pain point for many players.


TL;DR : Deliberate game-ruining behavior is something we need to prioritize addressing more. In the near future we’ll improve how report feedback works and introduce reporting in Champ Select. In the moderate term we’ll test more responsive detection of deliberate inting/pseudo afking. We're still considering steps after that but the plan is to keep working on this longer term. We’ll keep you updated each month on how internal progress and tests being run in specific regions are going.

The Long Version
First off, let’s define exactly what we’re talking about:

This is about players deliberately ruining the game for others, making it very difficult or impossible for their team to win.
It’s not about people who are genuinely trying and having a bad game or series of games even. Sometimes someone gets absolutely crushed in lane and dies over and over again. That’s very different to a player deciding the game’s over and then spending their time trolling others instead of trying to win.
The sort of behavior we’re looking at here involves things like deliberately dying while pretending to try, running around taking CS from others but then deliberately avoiding teamfights/objectives etc. It’s not as easy to detect as straight AFKing or constant inting, it still ruins games though.
It happens at all levels of play, though tends to be more common with players who’ve been playing for a while and generally understand how to avoid getting banned by our existing AFK and obvious inting detection.
Streamers often get targeted for this sort of trolling due to their higher profile. It’s not an issue unique to streamers, though.
Ok, so here's where are our heads are at:

First off, this is an area we need to prioritize work in more than we have recently. We haven’t done enough here relative to current player pain these behaviors are causing. We’re working right now to figure out which people we can pull off other projects to work on this instead.
Second, solutions here need to be really targeted at these specific issues. Other behavior-influencing work is valuable too, whether that’s things like Honor, other social/recognition systems, features with social impact like Clash, etc. They’re not a replacement for taking action on this sort of game-ruining behavior that needs to be addressed regardless.
That’s pretty general, so what actual changes are we planning?

Right Now - Improving Report Feedback
We’ve just started trialing improvements to how our report and notification systems work. For now, those are live on NA only, if this test goes well we’ll roll them out worldwide in a couple of weeks. Those should result in a significant increase in the number of punishments being surfaced.

One component of that is changes to how punishment notifications are generated. Previously you’d only be notified that a user you'd reported had been punished if that punishment was triggered immediately after the game you were reporting them for and the punishment was for the specific category you’d reported them in. The actual punishment system, however, looks at a player’s games over time and aggregates reports from different categories together. As a result, notifications were substantially lower than actual punishments. The revised notification system, by contrast, will notify you if a user was punished regardless of category of report and will do so if the player gets punished after any of their next dozen or so games.

Short Term - Champ Select Reporting and Muting
Disruptive behavior in Champ Select is a problem that players have very few ways to deal with. Starting around late Q2 we're going to give you the ability to report disruptive players in Champ Select. First, these reports will be used to establish a data foundation for champ select behavior. Then, once we've got enough data to identify different types of behavior accurately, we'll deploy a punishment system.

Moderate Term - Rapid Detection and False Positive Trade Off
After the above changes, we want to go back and reexamine our previous stance on rapid, automated detection of players who are trying to lose a game. We’ve been very cautious about it historically due to the risk of falsely identifying, and therefore punishing, a player who isn’t actually trolling. Avoiding unjust temp bans is important to offer a good player experience. Having said that, so is controlling deliberate trolling, self-sabotage, etc. In retrospect we may have prioritized avoiding one type of player pain too much at the expense of another type, so want to look at our options here again.

One thing that would be helpful as part of that is understanding where your heads are at as LoL players. What’s an acceptable rate of incorrect bans if it results in a noticeable drop in deliberate inting/afking? Is it worth accidentally giving a two-week ban to one player who was genuinely trying if that means 19 trolls also get banned? What if the ban is undeserved 1/100 times? 1/1000? Are incorrect bans never acceptable at all?

Longer term - To be determined
Beyond that, we’re still assessing which approaches to investigate next. We plan on doing more work in this space than just what’s listed above once we’ve got some of those projects shipped. We’ll update you folks on how things are going within a month.
Position Power Philosophy
Before getting into the details I wanted to outline our high level philosophy around position power. We look at positions in terms of game influence - which is their ability to impact the overall outcome of the game (win/loss) through good or bad performance. First off, we don’t believe that all positions should have the same level of game influence. Positions can vary in resources, map positioning, and skill ceiling which creates natural power positions in the game. We think rather than fully flatten the natural strategy and skill variety in LoL we would prefer to support the uneven role power but balance them into a tight spread so that all positions have the capacity to carry the game with good performance.

For example, we think a position like support, which has less intense skill demands throughout the game and lower resources, will have slightly less influence on win/loss than the other positions but they can make up for it by boosting their team’s performance through vision and utility. Worth noting that we aim for support influence being slightly low not extremely low influence as it was in the early days of League. Also we increased top lane influence this season, because we thought it should be on par with the other farming positions.

If you’re interested in our methods - the current metric we use to track position influence/power is how much an MMR difference (used as a proxy for good or bad performance) in that position affects the outcome of an otherwise even game. In a powerful position, a MMR difference can be highly impactful to the game outcome, whereas it has less of a difference in a weaker one.

Bot and Mid
Current state of the game, we see top dramatically improved from the last two seasons, and jungle remaining powerful. Our next focus is on Mid and Bot Carry positions, which aren’t far off but could use some slight adjustments.

Bot carry power has decreased slightly this season, so we wanted to put a small amount of power back into the role. We are exploring a few options, and we may not put power directly back into XP.

We think mid should be among the strongest positions in the game, but currently it is carrying a bit too much power. Slight nerfs should bring it in line, and we still intend for mid to be a highly influential role. We will likely have to change some mechanics (not just tune numbers) to effectively nerf mid without indirectly hitting top.

Matchmaking Algorithm and Ranked Seeding
We’re currently working on a few more improvements to matchmaking - an improved algorithm and ranked seeding.

We're improving the matchmaking algorithm to close in on a player's skill much more quickly as they play games. This'll reduce the amount of time every new player goes through the initial calibration period where the system doesn't yet know how to accurately matchmake them. It also reduces the amount of time smurfs are in matches well below their actual skill level.

Ranked Seeding will additionally improve the speed that we find a player's skill by using previous matchmaking data from normal queues to “seed” a player with a better rating when they first start ranked. Before this change, we always used a fresh rating (around high silver) for new ranked players, which led to problems with both smurfs and players that are truly new.

We’re planning to iterate on and test these changes slowly to make sure that they don’t have any unknown negative effects, but our goal is to have these fully rolled out some time this summer.

Clash so far
Now that Clash has been out for a little bit we wanted to share a few details on how it’s going and what’s up next:

The most recent run of Clash hit record participation numbers in most regions. Overall participation was up 30% on previous bests, with some regions up as much as 90%.
We’re continuing to work on bug fixes and quality of life changes for Clash. Recent notables include a fix for a bug where a few players couldn’t swap champions in champ select (thanks to everyone who submitted details, they were really helpful) and added details about Clash rewards you’ve earned in the Clash tab.
One of our next focuses is on smurfing. We’ve already adopted the policy that an account identified as smurfing will have its rewards stripped and then be blocked from future Clash participation. That’s not enough by itself though so we’re looking into other approaches as well. Nothing specific to share yet, wanted to share that it’s being looked at though given it’s been a key point of feedback received on Clash so far though.
Since the launch of Clash we’ve also seen the number of premade 5s in Flex queue increase substantially, up to double where it was previously in some regions before Clash launched. We believe that reflects teams using Flex to practice before Clash tournaments. To help Flex be more useful again we’re going to be removing the tier limits for who you can queue with in flex to make it easier to get a team together (Clash doesn’t have those same restrictions either). To avoid abuse cases we’ll then skew a team’s MMR significantly towards the MMR of its highest MMR player so that adding low MMR players can’t be used to gain an advantage.
Improving Event Rewards
I also wanted to touch on our event rewards systems, with some context on how they’ve changed over time and then a bit on what we’re thinking for the future.

First off, looking at pass grind. The graph below shows the average number of games of SR per day during an event that were required to get that event’s prestige skin and how it’s changed over time. It covers the events from Battle Academia last year to our projections for the next event after Galaxies. Galaxies has separate columns for pre and post token buffs. Around Worlds last year, we realized the event pass/prestige skin system was much grind heavier than it should have been. We’ve been reducing that over time as a result, both by making rewards in general more available and by shifting rewards towards missions, rather than sheer number of games played.

With Mecha Kingdoms especially we felt we’d gone a bit too far in reducing commitment needed, both from the perspective of how exclusive prestige skins should be and also just from a revenue perspective. Event pass and related sales help fund things like game modes, ability to give away content in free missions/loot, etc. With Galaxies we pulled back as a result, though then realized we’d put too much grind back in. As a result we pivoted partway through Galaxies, putting more tokens into missions to reduce grind.

We’ll be adding more tokens again to weekly win missions for the next upcoming event as well, as per the May 2020 column in the graph, getting to similar levels as Worlds/Night and Dawn last year.

Graph_Image_v1.jpg
For anyone who wants to dig into the details more, here’s all the relevant data in table form. Some things to note here:

Back when we used win of the day missions instead of weekly missions the average player with an event pass only got 18 wins of the day on average. Almost every pass buyer gets all the weekly missions now however and that’s been factored into the relevant column here.
Worlds 2019 is an outlier, since it was a much longer pass than average but also included two available prestige skins. The games to hit 2000 tokens value is for games needed to acquire one of those skins as a result.
Event	
Pass duration in days

Mission Tokens	Tokens from Pass Bundle	Average tokens earned from wins of the day/weekly wins	Average tokens per SR game	Average SR games per day to hit 2000 tokens
Battle Academia	31	300	200	324	9	4.22
Arcade	31	300	200	324	9	4.22
Project	32	300	200	324	9	4.08
Worlds 2019	54	400	200	547	9	1.76
Night & Dawn	32	300	200	940	9	1.94
Mecha Kingdoms	34	300	200	1000	9	1.63
Galaxies (at launch)	32	300	200	800	7.5	2.92
Galaxies (post fix)	32	300	200	940	
7.5	2.33
Next not yet announced event	32	300	200	1000	7.5	2.08
Looking to the future we think our event rewards, both free and premium, can be further improved. We’re working on moving to a track based system, like the one TFT and a lot of other games use, which should make it a lot easier to understand what rewards are available, how you’re progressing, what impact missions will have, which rewards you can get for free etc. We do want to ensure a higher degree of player choice remains as well though, in terms of what specific rewards you can get, which we think is a good aspect of the current system.

In terms of timing that work isn’t far enough along yet to talk about exact dates. We’re aiming for sometime this year though certainly.

TFT and the Galaxies system
Finally on the TFT side of things wanted to touch on the Galaxies mechanic that was added in 10.7. Our goal for it was that it should result in games where what was optimal was clearly different than normal, creating different decisions and therefore comps/experiences. Overall we think it’s doing a great job of that so far, giving a lot of game to game variety. It’s still a work in progress though certainly and we’ll be adding further galaxies over time, removing or reworking those that aren’t as enjoyable (or influence game outcome too much), tuning the frequency of how often galaxies show up etc.
