OK, we know what you're thinking. Why the heck are we giving fighters EVEN MORE AD next patch?!

The gist of it is that ever since the Preseason 2021 item overhaul, light fighters like Irelia and Xin Zhao have felt a lot more like unpunishable tanky murderers than they really should. When these kinda champs have too much of their power in health and defensive-skewed items, their high-risk high-reward playstyles get washed out and become reliable/low-risk yet still high-reward. They basically become frontliners that can singlehandedly murder you, rather than risky champions who have to be swift and smart going into fights in order to get their sweet, sweet payoffs. At that point, why would you pick Nasus when Riven feels just as durable and has better damage and mobility? (Okay, we're exaggerating a bit here, but you get what we mean.)

An interesting issue in the fighter item space is that a lot of the items are pretty similar, yet the champions and classes they’re meant for are quite diverse. What do Illaoi (a juggernaut), Fiora (a light fighter), and Vi (a diver) all have in common? Honestly, not very much, but they use a lot of the same items and are all called fighters. Last season, that problem got even worse as they all consolidated around a handful of powerful items like Goredrinker and Sterak’s Gage. Sterak’s made pretty much all fighters good at teamfighting, while Goredrinker did the same plus gave them all huge heals at low health. These subclasses started blending together rather than distinguishing themselves as three separate archetypes. Not all fighters are supposed to be good at teamfighting, and when Sterak’s is making them that way, it can be kinda f-... messed up.

To de-homogenize the system, we considered adding new items tailored specifically for each class. We did a bunch of early explorations for new fighter items and even tried overhauling some existing underused ones. (There were some wild ideas like making Silvermere something like the old Sword of the Occult, and a killed-in-the-box version of Maw that would grant invulnerability). These explorations were fun and interesting, but we came to realize that this was like building on a shaky foundation. Before adding anything, we needed to make sure that no item in the current system is a default item of EVERY subclass. Each subclass also needs to have exciting items that reasonably cover their needs. And last but not least, for the long-term health of the fighter class at large, we had to ensure that no items break down their subclass's weaknesses. Once we have those fundamentals down, maybe then we can consider adding new items if necessary.

With all of this in mind, we determined that the single most impactful thing we could do was to push Sterak's out of being a default option for every fighter everywhere. It should be a strong anti-burst teamfight option for juggernauts like Darius, whereas champions like Viego or Master Yi shouldn't get access to that without some serious tradeoffs. Just like how we weren’t comfortable with juggernauts getting a dash using ol’ dashy Stridebreaker, we aren’t comfortable giving light fighters the durability they’re currently getting with Sterak’s Gage.

These kinds of characters do need some defensive options though, and for that, we're moving Death’s Dance back toward hybrid physical/magic damage reduction. The reason we chose Death’s Dance is that the item requires fighters to actually deal damage in order to survive the bleed. They can’t just sit on the front line and soak damage, happy as a clam, leisurely waiting for the right opportunity to go in; unless they fight with finesse, Death's Dance won't save them.

Outside of that, we’ve shifted some other item stats around to make sure that light fighters don’t incidentally stack health just by building their damage items. Risky characters should be building offensive tools that open them to death when they play poorly, so those items have to be powerful and tempting to purchase. Not every fighter should be able to use every fighter item in the shop, but every fighter should feel like they have items built for them.

I really do want to note that we’ll be watching this closely and following up on outlier champions or items (whether too strong or too weak!). We’re also keeping an eye on other classes who might poach these items as well. Some overlap is fine, but when a choice item overrides one of their class weaknesses, that’s also no good. We still think there are more spots in the system that need work, but we’d rather we take a good step toward making the current system better than wait until we can change it all at once.
Hello, Riot Sirhaian here! I’m a senior VFX artist on the Skins team who sometimes updates older League champions’ VFX.

VFX updates started out as a personal project a few years ago with Veigar (never forget the old Veigar cage ❤). Now, a few years down the line, we’re a small team of passion-fueled VFX artists working to modernize League’s roster and improve gameplay readability.

With more VFX updates coming, we thought it would be a great opportunity to talk about why we’re doing them, how we go about it, and how you can help us improve!

042522_Veiger_VFX.jpg

Veigar’s cage before and after the 2018 update

VFX Updates Explained
VFX updates—or visual effects updates—are small improvements geared toward sprucing up some of the oldest champions in League’s roster. They’re done to upgrade overall gameplay consistency, readability, and graphics quality, all while elevating champions’ thematics and resonance.

Unlike VGUs, VFX updates only affect the visual effects of a given champion, not all of a champ’s visuals. Most of the time, VFX are the spells they cast, or the effects that play around them when they emote. Explosions, magic, sparkles, you name it! There are a few exceptions to this rule, though. Occasionally the audio team might make a few tweaks or add new sound effects, and we may make small adjustments to animations or quickcast indicators if they’re really inaccurate (like Annie’s pre-update W). But when it comes to gameplay, models, textures, and character animations, there are no changes. This tight scoping allows us to ship VFX updates a lot faster than VGUs or ASUs (Art and Sustainability Updates).

Because VFX updates are a lot faster than VGUs or ASUs, we have a lot more free reign on which champions to tackle next. A huge factor for us is passion, but we also focus on the champions that need the update most. To figure out who this is, we have some goals we use as guidelines:

Primary: Fix gameplay issues such as inaccurate or missing hitbox indicators, VFX features that broke over the years, or wrong visual communication (does something read as its appropriate spell)
Secondary: Improve gameplay readability (how easy it is to see abilities), reduce overall visual noise (reduce the “busy-ness” of textures that have a lot of very fine, unneeded details) and adjust spells' visual power levels (spells should not be too bright or too hard to see)
Tertiary: Enhance thematic resonance (make a Void champion feel more Voidy, for example)
Our goals are ranked in order of importance, so gameplay readability will always prevail over thematic resonance, and the primary goal of VFX Updates will always be to prioritize the correction of inaccurate hitbox indicators.

042522_Blitz_VFX.jpg

Blitzcrank’s R, before and after his VFX Update

There are a few other things we have to consider when working on and shipping VFX updates. For example, just like our engineers have made strides to remove spaghetti code from the game, we’ve been hard at work removing the... marinara (blood) that dressed it. This is something we could get away with in the olden times, but not anymore, no matter how much it pains us (who doesn’t love some good marinara on their spaghetti code?).

042522_Amumu_VFX.jpg

Trying to match the style from The Curse of the Sad Mummy for Amumu’s new R VFX

We also try to add more flair to skins that under-deliver relative to their skin tier. That said, we have to be mindful of the time commitment when we’re approaching skin catalogs. Here are some general guidelines we follow when updating skins:

All skins will receive appropriate changes to match the new base changes. For example, if an indicator is made bigger on base to better match the gameplay, all indicators should have the exact same size on all the skins.
Skins that already had modified or unique VFX before the VFX update will preserve that same level of distinction
750 RP (and lower) skins can only receive one small tweak if it makes sense
975 RP skins will receive a small recolor if it makes sense, and some added elements if it makes sense
1350 RP skins will receive entirely new VFX if they don’t already have them
1820+ RP skins will receive entirely new VFX if they don’t already have them, and can receive VFX for their emotes where/if it makes sense
Skins that already have modern VFX matching their tier will likely not receive new VFX (there’s no need to update the brand new skin your favorite champion just received if they already have modernized VFX).

How We Approach VFX Updates
Are you still with me? Good! Now I’m here to tell you how we actually do the thing in seven simple steps!

We choose a champion to update. This can be a champion a particular artist really enjoys, one we feel really needs a touch-up, or just someone next on our list. Some champions need more work than we can solve (like VGU or ASU tier), and we pass on these during our evaluation. So, if your favorite champion has very old VFX, they may be even more challenging than they appear—but that doesn’t mean we won’t get to them eventually.
Once the champion is selected, the VFX artist starts with the base skin. Throughout production there’s a constant feedback loop between the artist, the VFX Update team, and the entire LeagueVFX Community at Riot. This involves sound designers, game designers, and a whole lot more people. While it is most often a single artist working on a given VFX update, it’s always a team effort, especially when it comes to feedback.
Once the base is solid and approved, the VFX artist starts working on the skins. All skins are made to match the updates made to the base. Older skins tend to receive more changes than newer ones, as more modern skins are usually pretty up-to-date.
After this, everything's sent to testing to catch potential oversights and bugs.
Once bugs have been fixed we ship the VFX update to PBE, often sharing a little video on Reddit or social media so we can look to players and the community for feedback.
We try to gather as much feedback as we can, constantly watching Twitter, YouTube, and the League of Legends and LeaguePBE subreddits. We make sure to look at each champion's “main” subreddits as well.
And finally we ship the VFX update to live. If anything comes up at a later date, we’ll apply it in an update in the following patch to make it right.
How You Can Help
Because VFX updates are faster than other in-game updates like VGUs or ASUs, we don’t publish development blogs along our journey. That said, we still love to get your feedback! We always try to read as much as we can, but sadly we cannot reply to everyone. But if your feedback is constructive, helpful, and provides an alternative that we hadn’t run into before, there’s a chance we’ll follow up to get more of your insight!

In general, the best place to offer feedback is through our r/LeaguePBE Subreddit posts such as these: Leona VFX Update Feedback Thread or Shaco VFX Update Feedback Thread.

042522_Thresh_VFX.jpg

Working on the Thresh Lantern for his 2020 VFX Update

All this said, sometimes it can be hard to make feedback constructive, especially if we're talking about your main! Here are a few things we look for:

1. Is it actionable?

Specific feedback that points to a specific change is by far the most useful. This might look like “This skin could use a new Q indicator like the others of the same tier” or “This hitbox looks incorrect, can you take a look at it?” Or even, “The projectile isn’t very visible and is hard to read.” These are all examples of great actionable feedback that we can take a look at and address.

Vague feedback is hard to act on because it's less clear what would address it, and all-encompassing feedback (like adjusting theming) is usually out of scope for VFX updates.

2. Is it objective?

Like all art, VFX can elicit opinions. While one person might love the original design, someone else could hate it. So saying “I hate the color green, can you change it?” unfortunately isn’t something we can solve. But we could potentially address “This color green doesn’t match the skin.”

3. Is it mostly unanimous?

This is a pretty big one. While we always try to make as many of you happy as possible, the reality is that not everyone likes the same things. We’re more likely to act on overwhelming consensus than we are a single person’s dissent (even a main's!).

Something else to note here is that League is a global game, so while something is trending in your language or region, that might not be the global response. At the end of the day we try to listen to the majority of people everywhere, not just the loudest!

042522_YasTeemo_FVX.jpg

As a special callout, I just want to add that insulting an individual artist is never the right approach. Constructively calling out issues with the work is alright (encouraged, even!) but personal insults make it less likely that members of the team will want to keep working on these extracurricular passion projects. They also risk sending a signal to League leaders that VFX updates could be harming the community rather than helping it: Angry players + Discouraged devs = Not Worth.

We love getting your constructive feedback because it shows us you’re really passionate about this endeavor. This keeps us going and helps us make League a better game!

The Future of VFX Updates
We hope you learned something from this post! We haven’t talked much about the VFX updates process in the past, and that’s something we wanted to fix. Whenever a new VFX update happens and you see a post about it on social media channels, please don’t hesitate to leave your feedback! We always try to read as much feedback from all of you as possible.

And as for who’s getting the next VFX update... Well, that’s a secret! But don’t worry, we’re hard at work on more VFX updates to make sure your favorite champions get the sparkles and love they deserve!
TimTamMonster here, your new Product Lead for Behavioral Systems.

Let’s get right to it. I know many of you have been disappointed in the lack of progress made in Behavioral Systems over the last few years. You’ve told us again and again that this space is important. And I'm with you. That’s why I'm here to share some updates kicking off Riot's new approach to this space in 2022.

Shifting Focus to the 95%
Over the last couple of years, we've largely focused on "behind the scenes" upgrades to our detection and punishment systems to improve your experience, and we now know this isn’t making enough of an impact. The data shows that only 5% of players are consistently disruptive. These are players we definitely should be punishing, and we will always continue improving our systems for that. But the other 95% are regular players who get tilted every once in a while, and these players make up 86% of our reports. In other words, almost all reports are on the average player who usually behaves well.

We've all been there; League is a competitive game. But when each game has 9 other players, if everyone is occasionally disruptive, you’ll probably run into these behaviors often. And whenever you run into someone being disruptive, it doesn’t matter to you if they behave well most of the time. Their behavior in that moment still ruins your game, and that’s what matters.

So how do we improve the behavior of 95% of players as a whole? That’s a tough question, but we believe it's by building solutions that directly impact you and by partnering with you, our players, to create a stronger community together.

Reinforcing Positive Play
Behavioral Systems shouldn't just be about punishing bad players—it should also reward great ones. When we first released Honor 2.0 in 2018, it was the first rewards system of its kind, and we saw an incredible response from you all. But we've failed to update it over the past few years and it's fallen short of your expectations.

This year, we're upping the rewards with a new special recall VFX for players who are Honor 5 or have received an Honor from either a non-premade or two premades in their last game. Similar to the special Challenger recall, you’ll now have the opportunity to sport a special new Honor recall.

"What else?" Did I hear you ask? "Riot would never dedicate a specific new skin just for Honor." Oh, wait... That’s exactly what we're doing! We’re working hard on an exclusive skin just for players who reach Honor 5 as part of the End of Season rewards. These exclusive rewards will give you a new way to show off in-game, in addition to existing Honor skins, chromas, and other rewards. So now’s the time to get your Honor on! Stay tuned for more details.

Taking Action on Champ Select Reports
Another area we lost some of your confidence in is Champ Select reporting. Although we have been monitoring these reports, we didn’t add punishments for them accordingly as promised. Champ Select reports only make up about 3.2% of reports today, but we know that your experience in every part of the game still matters. I’m happy to share that we are tying punishments to Champ Select reports, and you'll see an update on that in a patch coming very soon.

Targeting Widespread Behaviors
Another area we’re focusing on that we know affects the majority of players is Verbal Abuse. There are a number of exciting projects we’re planning, including an upgrade to more advanced models to increase Verbal Abuse detections. We expect to see improvements in this area by up to 10x. While Verbal Abuse isn’t directly reflected in game stats like KDA, it as a widespread issue that often leads to other disruptive behaviors.

While these are just a few steps toward a larger goal, Riot is truly committed to this space, and I will ensure we continue to prioritize it. You can hold me to that.

In turn, I ask you to remember this: When you get frustrated, only you can stop yourself from being disruptive. All 95% of us can support these systems by being the type of player we want to play with—even in Ranked. It’s not always easy, I know, but even the most perfect systems can't prevent all instances of bad behavior from occurring. Because it's not just about building systems to influence human behavior. It's also about the humans who play the game. It's about you. And you're here reading this, so I know you care about our community too.

With your feedback and support, we can shape League's future together. I’m honored to be embarking on this journey together with you.
With the 2022 seasons of both ranked and Clash underway, we wanted to take some time to talk about the state of competitive play as we see it today.

Goals:
As with every season, we like to continually review our goals and evaluate how we’re tracking towards them. Specifically, for competitive play, we focus heavily on:

Competitive Integrity: Players have an even playing field in their competitive matches
Progression Opportunities: Players have meaningful goals to reach for
Team or Organized Play: Players are aware of, and can participate in, opportunities to play with others of similar intent and skill
We evaluate these goals by reviewing player sentiment and other metrics such as match availability (time to queue), quality (are matches competitive and fair), and whether or not matches are compelling to participate in (are they satisfying, do they deliver on player intent, and do they offer a sense of progression). Ultimately, we want to bring everyone a competitive game filled with opportunities that match their individual intent and expectations.

To do this, we try to create experiences in the form of different game modes and mechanics that match your play intent and expectations. For example, Solo/Duo Queue is all about creating a competitive environment to prove your mastery of League at the individual level, while Clash is there to test your mettle as a team. Both experiences have their strengths and weaknesses, but are generally going in the direction we’ve been targeting. Let’s dig in.

What’s Happening Now?
We have some clear issues with our overall matchmaking and queue health that we want to address early in the season. These include the following updates:

Revival MMR: We’ve found that our current systems aren’t as accurate as we’d hoped in maintaining the expected MMR of players that have taken a break from the game, be it a few weeks or a year plus. As such, we’re implementing a more dynamic approach to Revival MMR and MMR decay across all queues that should provide those players with fairer matches in their first 5-10 games back as they rediscover their muscle memory and game knowledge.
Boosting Evaluation: We addressed some boosting issues late last year, but we’re still not happy with the current state of the game here. Looking at Ranked Flex queue in particular, we saw issues with low MMR and high MMR combined premades that abused MMR discrepancy and account sharing to rapidly boost accounts to where they didn’t belong. We addressed this in the short term by restricting the top tier players to only playing with other accounts at similar ranks. We acknowledge there’s a lot more we should do here, and we plan on working directly with our anti-cheat team to identify solutions that will hopefully improve the integrity of Ranked Flex queue.
Challenges Launch: We’re getting close to the launch of Challenges. Its been a complex project with its own unique challenges (pun definitely intended), but we are happy with how expansive we’ve been able to make it and are excited to roll it out to players globally. We’re currently planning for Challenges to go live in patch 12.9!
That said, the launch of Challenges is just the beginning. We plan to continually invest in leveling up Challenges so it lives up to our vision as a robust progression experience for all League players.

Ranked Queue Health and the “Premade Problem”
From a high level viewpoint, Solo/Duo queue is currently in one of the healthiest states we’ve ever seen. Autofill is at its lowest ever global rate hovering between 0.5% and 3% of player games. Queue times are at a 2 year low in many large regions and hovering firm in our small regions. Lastly, MMR accuracy is strong, where 99% of players are playing with those within a maximum of 2 divisions of their rank with a steady win-prediction accuracy to back it up.

That said, we do see issues with Solo/Duo Queue that consistently point to our accommodation of premade duos–this directly adds quality and population volatility into the matchmaking mix. It causes games with duos of imbalanced MMR to impact our autofill/secondary role rates (sometimes double the chances), queue times (~10 second increase for players per game on average), and most importantly-game quality metrics (upwards of a 10% win-rate spread in both directions).

On the flip side, we’ve started to see a significant decline in the health of Ranked Flex queue where queue times (~7 min on average for 3 person parties) and match quality (2-4 division discrepancies between teams) have diverged significantly. The ironic thing here is that the total population in Ranked Flex remains healthy, but the premade distribution and make-up of that population has shifted to a point where it’s difficult to make matches at a quality bar we’d like.

The root cause of this is the high number of 3 person parties that want to play together, with not enough 1s and 2s to fill them out as these solo/duo players can just opt to play a different game mode. This can cause those matchmaking envelopes to expand to a point where queue times and quality expectations cannot reconcile.

Additionally, the difficulties making quality matches for our most popular premade size amplify the impact of disruptive actors in the queue like boosters (who queue as duos with their boostee) and account sellers (who queue as solo) such that the queue itself overall becomes unhealthy, especially at the top level.

To put it simply, our inability to match premades in a compatible way is a detriment to the system that doesn’t have a path to get back to being healthy without significant change.

In the past when we saw this, we attempted to resolve these issues by merging both queues together dynamically. With learnings from Dynamic Queue (which we won’t be revisiting) and a deeper understanding of player intent now, we know that’s not going to work. So what do we do?

What we’re investigating:

Solo Only Mode: In order to match player intent and provide the healthiest competitive individual queue possible, we’re re-evaluating our take on Solo/Duo and exploring a world where solo players play in solo queue and premades play in Ranked Flex or Organized 5’s modes.
On paper, the system health and quality indicators look really good. For example in Solo Only Queue:

We would expect an even further decrease in autofill and secondary rates
Queue times could decrease by up to ~5% for 99.9% of players
Winrate advantages due to team disparities would vanish completely
Boosting would be eradicated
We would expect between-team and within-team MMR for 99% of players to be within one division’s rank of each other during peak hours
In addition, we would likely see the following for our Ranked Flex queue:

An increase in queue population
Drastic improvements to match quality
Significant decrease in queue times for parties of 3
Increase in overall match quality and competitiveness
Increased opportunity for group/organized play
All that said, we absolutely want to be confident that our duo population, which is fairly significant in size, can still find a competitive environment before making any large changes to the current systems. This means re-investing in Ranked Flex queue integrity with our anti-cheat team and finding a natural way for Solo play to connect with Ranked Flex/Clash.

We’re approaching this topic seriously and with care, and will provide an update further on in the year on if it’s an area we can realistically move forward with.

Additional areas of focus include:

Re-evaluating our queue portfolio: We believe a healthy competitive system is more than just ranked modes. It also includes the other game modes like normals and ARAM. This means that in order to keep the game healthy, it’s also important to continually re-visit your other game modes on a regular basis.
We get to ask ourselves “what do changes that make our non-ranked queues as healthy as possible look like?”

Opportunities like:

What does blind pick look like if we guarantee you can get the Champion you want to play and not have to fight for it in Champ Select?
How do the compelling and strategic aspects of Clash expand to something that’s readily available and accessible for all players, yet still engaging for those that like to play with a premade 5s team?
How can we better connect esports with the general public’s play aspirations? How can efforts like Champions Queue be integrated into the core game for the larger player base in the future?
Further Expanding Progression: With the launch of Challenges coming soon, we’re hoping to take stock of the health of our overall progression systems. The intent here is to evaluate the impact of how a broader progression system affects the health of the game. Our expectation is that players who feel that they have meaningful progression options outside of ranked won’t be forced to take part in competitive queues when they otherwise don’t want to. If we find that play patterns for players include more variety for the majority of players, then we can start to focus more on perfecting exciting new features for specific subsets of players that creates a stronger and more unified set of game systems long term.

What you might expect to see are progression options that span into rotating game modes, exciting annual events, and potentially even other core games like Teamfight Tactics.
We’re excited to take a deeper look into our League systems and queues to provide the healthiest long-term version of League that is both competitive and engaging.

As always, see you on the Rift.
Hey all, Ryan “Reav3” Mireles here with another update on Udyr’s VGU, which will come out later this year. Since our last check-in, we’ve entered full production on Udyr, so this post will focus on how he’s looking in-game. But before we get into it, here’s a quick recap of what our goals were going into Udyr’s update:

We want to preserve Udyr’s stance-changing identity and keep him as a primarily auto-attack/melee-focused champion. We think this is what makes Udyr unique and stand out on the roster. To help his gameplay feel more modern, we want to add a bit more interest to his stances and melee pattern to give some more depth to playing him, as well as make it more clear when Udyr is doing something cool (he doesn’t really have a hype gameplay moment right now).
We want to upgrade Udyr’s visuals to modern League standards while keeping his general theme of a warrior shaman intact. Our goal is to build on Udyr’s visuals, not reinvent them.
As for his narrative, we want to bring his in-game portrayal closer to how he’s been portrayed in recent lore and give him stronger ties to the Freljord.
Oh, and in case you haven’t seen the Champions in 2022 video we released today, we decided to remove Udyr’s antlers. We know a lot of you weren’t really digging them, and once we got him in game (as you’ll see below) we felt they weren’t really needed for a unique silhouette.

And with that, on to the new stuff you all came here for!

Antlers or No Antlers?
Jason “OOYOO” Namgung, Character Artist:

Udyr’s rework has been a long time coming, and I was stoked to help recreate one of League’s most “senior” citizens.

When we got started, I assumed that Udyr would be a rather simple and straightforward champ to work on, but that façade wore away very, VERY quickly.

I got started by blocking out a proxy model to get him in-game to start testing our ideas for his visuals and gameplay. But in order to do this, we needed to get his proportions correct because without a good base we’d just be “polishing a turd.” Our goal was to make him feel like a big, strong mountain man, and that became our north star for his body type.

02_Udyr_Model.jpg
ORIGINAL / UPDATE VERSION 1 / UPDATE VERSION 2
While working on his proportions, we ended up removing his antlers. While we really liked the idea of them and we tried a lot to get them to work, we couldn’t get them to not look goofy because of how hunched over he is.

In one attempt they looked like wings, and in another they looked like propellers. No matter how hard we tried to get them to work, they just always looked off. Although the idea was cool, Udyr’s the animal spirit guy, not the antler guy. So ultimately we decided to table the antlers and refocus on his animal spirit fantasy.

After we built out Udyr’s base body, we got started on his stances. And that’s when we realized the mountain man was going to be a bit complicated.

03_Udyr_WIP_Sculpt.jpg
WORK IN PROGRESS OF UDYR’S SCULPT
His base body was pretty straight forward, but his four stances were a major hurdle. Not only were there four of them, but we also had to make sure each one amplified the fantasy of the animal spirit they’re associated with.

We try to create sustainable resources as we go, this way we’re future proofing new champions, making it much easier to develop skins and future updates. We decided to use the same “bones” in each of Udyr’s models to keep things simple for us and help readability in game for players.

04_Udyr_Power_Sculpt.jpg
EVOLUTION OF UDYR’S POWER
This meant we had to do A LOT of iteration to find what felt the best for our big boy. Some were simple while others required 10 or more iterations to get right.

...But that's the fun of game development!

05_Udyr_Beach_Boi.jpg
THICC BOY’S DAY AT THE BEACH
We’re still early in Udyr’s production and everything’s a work in progress, but we’re slowly getting closer to the final look and feel for our big boy. And hopefully all of you will enjoy him when he finally comes out!

Mastering Udyr’s Many Stances
Koingyeal “Koing” Jang, Animator:

Gameplay clarity is really important in League, and I knew Udyr would be challenging because I needed to look at each of his four stances as separate from each other, but still connected—because they needed to feel like Udyr in order to be clear in game. But I also wanted to animate his stances as if they’re four different champions with entirely different characteristics. That way it won’t be confusing to figure out which stance he’s in.

Udyr holds a deep reverence for wild animals, and I wanted that connection to be clear in his animations. Phoenix stance was the most challenging to animate and it took many iterations before I found the right direction.

We wanted his pose to look bird-like, magical, and related to ice, which is... a lot. I also wanted to preserve his wildness, so after much thought, I came up with the wind attack idea.

06_Udyr_VFX1.gif

The idea was to mimic a bird’s wing, with Udyr creating wind with the swipe of his arm. I liked the direction a lot, but there were a few problems: The size of the air made the attack look like it hit multiple enemies instead of just one, and the team wanted this stance to be related to ice more than wind. That meant I needed to go back to the drawing board.

07_Udyr_VFX2.gif

My next idea was to animate Udyr creating ice instead of wind, so that it looked like he was using his magic to attack with the ice. We all liked this direction more than the first iteration with wind, but we were afraid that he looked too magical and lost his wildness aspect that’s key to who he is. That meant I needed to find a good balance between his magical power and inherent wildness.

08_Udyr_VFX3.gif

Next I leaned more into a physical version of ice. And while I really liked this direction, it felt like it lost the connection with birds.

09_Udyr_VFX4.gif

So I changed the stabbing lunge to a swipe to bring in bird-like inspiration from the first idea, but kept the iced wings as a nod to a certain winged Freljordian demigod. The final idea ended up being a blend of everything I did leading up to this point, in true game development fashion. And we’re all really excited with where we ended up.

Udyr has many types of basic attacks, which meant I had to animate it for each stance. My approach to each is pretty much the same: I consider his personality first, and then need to think about the spell's function, all while making sure they feel unique to each stance. Here are some of the others using the same process:



Awakening the Beasts of the Freljord
Luis “Riot Bloois” Aguas, Visual Effects Artist:

Oh deer, it's Udyr. It's also VFX time!

Udyr's VGU gave me a good opportunity to push boundaries in League's VFX style. The first inception of that came from the question, "Can I make Udyr look like he’s in a fighting game and in League?"

Fighting games have always been a genre where you can express individual mastery over a character and its matchups. When I looked at Udyr's new gameplay, I immediately thought of that individual character skill expression you’d find in a fighting game. His stances have different use cases—Bear Stance is great against certain champions in a 1v1 duel, Phoenix Stance is great in an AoE situation, and so on.

I picture an Udyr player knowing when it’s the right time to use the optimal stance, and that being the thing that differentiates between a good Udyr player and a great Udyr player. He’s an incredibly versatile and flexible champion—exactly the type of character I’d want in a fighting game.

But fighting games and League are two different games with two different types of VFX. Where’s the happy medium?

Before we get into examples, let me explain Udyr’s passive, which is what I’ll be talking about: If Udyr is already in a stance and it is on cooldown, he can Awaken it. Each stance has an empowered form or function when it’s Awakened.

With this in mind, his passive should visually make you feel powerful when you Awaken each stance. Going back to my original goal of trying to combine League and a fighting game, I decided to go for heavily stylized, sharp, hard-edged shapes to hit that “powerful feeling.”

12_Udyr_Passive1.gif
FIRST ITERATION OF UDYR’S PASSIVE VFX—I USED A FLAT WHITE COLOR TO FIGURE OUT THE SILHOUETTE BEFORE MOVING ON TO COLORED EFFECTS
After looking at the first iteration I decided that, while cool, the direction didn’t quite fit League’s VFX style. So... now what?

13_Udyr_Passive2.gif

I looked for answers in Udyr’s spiritual energy. What does this power look like after he channels it? How does it feel connected to the spirits he holds dear?

I replaced the hard shapes with softer ones to match League’s VFX style and introduced color to deepen the overall fantasy. But I couldn’t stop thinking about that initial fighting game design, so I had a thought... What if we add everything together and make color the differentiator between his stances?



Exploration of the new combined visual effects

Because there are 4 stances, I needed to create a color palette for each one. These visuals are all using the same exact VFX, with the only exception being their color!



Bear Stance on the left and Ram Stance on the right

This design felt really cool, but nothing actually communicated that Udyr entered a more powerful form. So I decided to tone down the visuals I had and focus on a way to make it clear he was in an enhanced state.

Up until this point I was creating VFX on Udyr’s old model. But around this time OOYOO completed an updated proxy model to give us a better idea of how he’d look in game. This meant that I could start creating VFX based on Udyr’s updated kit and model, instead of just “blue skies”ing ideas on his old one.

Before I got started working with Udyr’s new model, I needed to prioritize which elements of his gameplay are most important to communicate. For example, when you press Q, three things happen:

Udyr enters Bear Stance
Udyr gains bonus attack speed for the next two auto attacks
Udyr gains bonus attack speed for a certain duration
Since the bonus attack speed lasts longer than the Awaken passive, that gets a higher visual priority. But even higher than that is making it clear which stance is Udyr in.

In League, we typically communicate an auto attack enhancement by applying VFX to a champion’s hands. In Udyr’s case, I added lightning VFX to his Bear Stance’s bear claws to indicate that Udyr’s auto attacks are doing something extra. There were three visuals I needed to create, with each one unique but still feeling connected to the others: The idle VFX with bear claws active, the stance activation with the active Awaken buff, and his passive’s Awaken VFX cast and buffs.

18_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Idle.gif
UDYR’S BEAR STANCE IDLE VFX
19_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Activation_Buff.gif
UDYR’S BEAR STANCE ACTIVATION
20_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Awaken_Buff.gif
UDYR’S PASSIVE AWAKEN CAST AND BUFF VFX
You might notice some of the visual language from my early “fighting game” exploration and that’s because... it’s there! I was able to combine sharp shapes with thematic lightning hooks and soft blending to ground it within League’s VFX style while still giving it something uniquely Udyr.

Then I needed to move on to the effects when you interact with enemies. When Udyr’s Bear stance is Awakened, your next two auto attacks will arc chain lightning to your primary target and then spread nearby enemies. (Sound familiar?)

21_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Chain_Lightning.gif

Furthermore, when this arc of lightning hits a single target and doesn’t bounce to others, it’ll do increased damage. Kind of like a big lightning bear when he’s mauling your face.

22_Udyr_Bear_Stance_Lightning.gif

And that wraps up what I’ve got to share for Udyr’s VFX! As a reminder, everything I’ve shared is a work in progress, and the final product may still end up a bit different than the direction we currently have. I hope you like what you’ve seen here, and I can’t wait to see what you think when you get your claws on him. Thanks everyone~!

Channeling the Dragon Spirit
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist:

Udyr has just a few very classic, very well-known skins in his catalog (Spirit Guard, anyone?), and as we were figuring out his base, we were keeping ideas for his skins in the back of our dev brains. We decided to start with his most recent, Dragon Oracle.

It’s a great looking skin with an excellent thematic, so there’s a lot to keep with some things that need to be adjusted to match his new character. Also, the dragon thematics and colors will easily translate to what the new-dyr is here to represent.

We wanted to do our due diligence by going wide with the explorations—we have a pretty solid understanding of this dragon world now thanks to the extensive amount of skins—so we focused on a few different areas. We decided early on that he should remain on the mystical dragon side of things, and not among the draconic division of dragonslayers—he still channels the dragon spirits for just a hint of their power. But that left us asking, how dragon-y should he look? How physically affected is he by the animal spirits he channels? (That will forever be a question on Udyr!) 

23_Dragon_Oracale_First_Spread.jpg

We decided to keep Udy more human than dragon to show that he’s in control of the draconic power he’s summoning. Some dragon elements will be cool for this skin, some scales, and definitely horns! But overall we want to keep his arms and shoulders free to show off his stances and animations.

24_Dragon_Oracle_Second_Spread.jpg

Next we’re honing some of the more minor details for his base before doing the in-game version and concepting the dragon form stances!

25_Dragon_Oracle_Third_Spread.jpg

And here’s where we’re heading with this skin: getting into the in-game view and his ortho for modeling.

There’s lots more to come on Udyr skins, so keep an eye out for these in a later update!

26_Dragon_Oracle_Udyr_Concept.jpg

What Comes Next?
As you can see we’ve made a lot of progress and we think his base is coming along nicely. I think it’s worth sharing that Udyr does have quite a few skins, and the nature of his form swapping makes each one take longer than the average champion would—not to mention he also has an Ultimate skin.

Given all that, we still have a ways to go before we can finally get the new Udyr into your hands. We want to make sure we get him and his skins right before he releases into the wild, and we’ll be sure to keep you updated in future champion roadmaps once we have a clearer picture.
Hey everyone! We’re the audio folks who worked on Caitlyn’s new theme as part of her Art & Sustainability Update. We want to share what went into composing her theme and a little something extra we made for all of you. So sit back, remember that Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge, and prepare to get musical.

A Little Piltover, A Lotta Sheriff
Senior Composer Alexander “Scherzo” Temple:
When working on any champion’s theme, we need to start by looking at where in Runeterra they come from. Piltover’s musical palette has historically been defined by orchestral pieces that emphasize patterns and precision. You can hear it in things like Camille’s or Seraphine’s themes and LoR boards, for example.

Piltover’s the home of inventors, scientists, and dreamers. It’s a really harmonious place, but underneath the harmony there’s a certain degree of neutrality—uncertainty, even. But it almost feels as if no one’s quite sure all this advancement will always be a good thing. This led us to try introducing a few unexpected dissonances throughout the music.

We wanted Caitlyn’s musical language to feel consistent with the Piltovan music that already exists, but not so restrictive that we couldn’t differentiate between her and Piltover overall.

01_FoxConsole_Web.jpg

We found that a combination of “found” percussion like clocks and gears mixed with various types of rhythmic zithers, keys, and strings felt uniquely Piltovan. From there, we included a more expanded take on the traditional orchestra to give us a bigger range for the stories we want to tell, while still feeling like an extension of existing Piltovan music.

But I still felt we needed something that didn’t just represent Piltover. Something that just represented Caitlyn. So when I looked at who she is, the thing that stuck out was her wealthy, aristocratic background.


I used small ornaments and flourishes throughout her theme that sound like they might come from established musical traditions of Piltover’s high society, but in ways that felt more like vestigial trappings than core elements. They represent a part of who she is, but a part that doesn’t wholly define her.

02_Alex_Brendon_Notes_Web.jpg

Melodically, what I settled on was actually giving Caitlyn a pair of themes combined into one. The A theme has elements of intricacy and precision that’s meant to reflect the inquisitive, fiercely intelligent side of her. The B theme is more lyrical, steady, and purposeful, with an unhurried confidence that I felt captured her righteous side. It also happens to be a variation of one that I wrote as a shared theme for her and her family, but I re-framed it to have a bit of “against the grain” individuality for Caitlyn alone. Without getting too technical, I found a harmonic progression that had one spicy chord that shook things up just enough to add that individuality, without tipping the needle so far that it felt like we were no longer in Piltover.


EZREAL’S GEARS BREAK DOWN FIRST” - A PILTOVAN MUSIC THEORIST... PROBABLY
Sound Designer Emmanuel “Riot Gunlap” Lagumbay:
In addition to Caitlyn’s full orchestral theme, we wanted to try something new... A piano arrangement! And we wanted to release the sheet music for all you piano players out there!

We’ve seen (and heard) plenty of covers of the music from League over the last decade, and it’s always a pleasure to listen to what you all come up with. This time, we wanted to help out by giving you access to an official piano version that can be played on a solo instrument. Because—let’s be real—not everyone has a band or orchestra at home!

03_HarlanandAlex_SheetMusic_Web.jpg

Download the Piano Arrangement

The piano version is arranged and performed by Harlan Hodges, who you may have heard performing piano on Viego’s theme. Harlan worked to capture the full orchestration from Scherzo’s original score, and while we originally thought this piece would be a little easier to perform, we ended up with a Challenger-level piano piece. That being said, with a couple of listens, and a few adjustments, it can still be simplified and made easier to play while retaining the core musical material that represents Caitlyn.

We’ve also got some of his thoughts on the process, and some tips for you as you get to learning the piece!

A Change in Tempo
Arranger and Pianist Harlan Hodges:
It was crucial for me to identify all the character-driven musical elements that were spread out across the orchestral composition to figure out what would work for a solo piano version. The tricky part in an arrangement like this is not only finding those elements, but also not reducing them down so much that it loses the composer’s original character and intent.

It can be very hard to take an orchestral score and make it “feel” like a piano piece. I felt like the best way for me to find the important material was to learn the entire piece by ear and play some basic things along with the recording before looking at any of the actual scores. Whatever stood out to my ear that I could easily learn is what I gravitated towards as stuff we couldn’t lose.

04_HarlanPianoWeb.jpg


In terms of practicing and performing the piece, you have to allow your body to memorize all the large leaps between your hands toward the end. Practice this at slower tempos and sink into the keys. This will help you get a feel for how far the jumps are without having to look at both of your hands, and try to relax as much as possible on the ostinatos and repeated figures so they don’t feel rushed. There’s some tricky detail in the triplets on the right hand and dynamics as well, so don’t be afraid to slow down or go down one dynamic marking! Although difficult, I think anyone tackling it will really enjoy the reward of having learned it because it is a challenge. It’s very fun to have under your hands.


We hope you enjoy Caitlyn’s new theme as much as we enjoyed bringing it to you, and we can’t wait for you all to experience Caitlyn’s journey in Arcane. And of course, we want to hear your performances of Caitlyn’s theme! Please tag us on social media so we can find you!
We've made a commitment to share updates on what we've been doing to improve the performance and reliability of the League Client. Today's update is the ninth blog in the series. (See the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth here!)
TL;DR—We updated the CEF (Chromium Embedded Framework) web browser at the heart of the League Client in patch 11.17 and have seen significantly improved memory usage, lower CPU utilization, and fewer crashes. With this, we can now focus on planning more frequent updates to improve the reliability and performance of the client!

Updating Chromium Embedded Framework (CEF)

It's a big moment for the Client Cleanup Campaign! Back in the beginning of the year, we determined that updating the client's version of Chromium Embedded Framework (CEF)—a.k.a. the web browser at the heart of the League Client's architecture—to version 91 would be the most impactful thing we could do to improve the client. (For context, the last time we updated it was back in November 2019 to version 74...) The benefits of updating CEF are two-fold: First, it immediately improves memory usage, CPU utilization, and stability. Second, it unlocks our ability to do many future improvements since it comes with newer features and tools (more on that in a sec). These reasons made updating CEF our top priority of the year, so we're super happy to announce we successfully launched the update to version 91 in patch 11.17 with great results so far!

Fewer Client Crashes
Upgrading CEF helped us address a lot of client crashes, and our goal is to continue addressing the ones that impact players the most. We're happy to see a 61% drop in crashes since 11.16 and a 38% drop from the average rate in 2021 so far, and we plan to keep driving those numbers down. In fact, early data from patch 11.18 shows another big drop in crashes! This is a huge win since we have a large number of client startups in any given patch (which can be upwards of 240 million in our Riot Regions!)

Patch

Number of Crashes

11.14

2,349,865

11.15*

3,686,442

11.16

3,161,145

11.17

1,214,155

(* 11.15 had a longer patch cycle, explaining the higher count here.)

The top culprit behind the remaining crashes seems to be machines running out of memory. After digging a bit deeper, we noticed that almost half of these out-of-memory crashes were on old PCs running Windows 7. While some players worldwide do play League on old PCs running Windows 7 (our current minspec), we're going to investigate how many of these cases are bots, unlicensed/out-of-date copies of Windows, or other circumstances that aren't representative of regular players legitimately playing League.

Reduced Memory Usage
We've seen a significant decrease in the client's front-end memory usage during a single session. The front-end of the client refers to the visual elements that players interact with like buttons, text fields, and pretty much everything you can see and click on. In our Riot Regions, here's the breakdown:

CEF Version

20th percentile players (faster machines)

50th percentile players (medium spec machines)

90th percentile players (slower spec machines)

74 (pre-patch 11.17)

359 MB

597 MB

1016 MB

91 (patch 11.17+)

74 MB

275 MB

598 MB

Improvement

285 MB (79%)

322 MB (54%)

418 MB (41%)

Memory in this context is sort of like attention—the more it's freed up, the more room your computer has to multitask or focus on what it's already doing. This means fewer client crashes and more memory available so you can watch LCS streams and queue up for ranked at the same time!

Lower CPU Utilization
We've also seen a decrease in the amount of CPU power the client now uses. Here's the breakdown in our Riot Regions:

CEF Version

20th percentile players ( faster machines)

50th percentile players (medium spec machines)

90th percentile players (slower spec machines)

74 (pre-patch 11.17)

13%

34%

83%

91 (patch 11.17+)

10%

22%

72%

Percent Drop

23%

35%

15%

This means your computer doesn't have to work as hard to run the client, leading to cooler processors and less power consumption. Videos, for example, are very taxing on the CPU, whereas the League Client shouldn’t be. Basically, more Netflix and Pentakill.

What does a newer version of CEF unlock for us?
Chromium-based apps
Chromium-based apps are some of the fastest-growing tools and programs in software development today. You’re probably already using a Chromium app to read this article, to chat in Discord with your friends, and to listen to that playlist of the same 10 songs on repeat for the 100th time. Every single one of those applications use Chromium, and so does the client. Updating the client's Chromium Embedded Framework version gives us access to Chromium's newer features and improvements.

WebAssembly
Next let’s talk about WebAssembly, a code format that can run complex instructions much faster than base JavaScript, which is what many apps in the client still run on (remember "ember apps" from earlier blogs?). CEF basically emulates a specialized "mini-computer" within the client that uses WebAssembly to process code more efficiently. Because WebAssembly supports a wide variety of programming languages, it makes reusing existing code easier while also giving us the performance advantage that comes with running processes in that specialized "mini-computer" (rather than launching a separate application). WebAssembly is slowly being adopted across the web, and support in Chromium improves with each release. Having access to WebAssembly will make the client faster and let us do things we couldn't do before.

Web Workers
Then there’s Web Workers. Historically, Chromium apps run synchronously, meaning they process one line of code at a time. That's like having one single worker on the entire factory line, whereas Web Worker*S* scale up the team so you can run multiple lines of code alongside each other. A Chat Web Worker could handle all things chat, while the main client focuses on getting you into a game. So if you've got a particularly talkative friend asking you for Teemo build suggestions, that conversation would no longer slow down the rest of your client experience. Web Workers will also make the client faster.

Even without writing new code to take advantage of these new features, updating CEF alone has already made the client faster thanks to better handling of the JavaScript we've already written. As we improve other areas of the client, we can focus on methods that work well with native performance improvements.

Other Updates
We've also made progress on the End Of Game (EOG) experience since our last blog post. First things first, we added some code to collect data on exactly what's going on during the stalled "Waiting for Stats" page that players are still experiencing. This helped us identify and improve the delay time since it really shouldn't be as long as it currently is. We also shipped a fix in 11.17 that reduced the chance of that page completely freezing. Additional fixes to the game engine were pushed to speed up EOG even more in 11.19. And—last but not least!—we're excited to integrate Challenges and are doing our due diligence to make sure this new feature doesn't impact the client's performance and reliability.

What’s Next
Our CEF update proved to be extremely valuable in improving the client, so we're establishing a more frequent update schedule (instead of once every 1.5 years, lolz). As for the rest of 2021, we will continue to prioritize the reliability of the client, address EOG with the Challenges team, address high-frustration bugs, and continue to improve our code to improve your experience. Thanks for joining us in celebrating this huge milestone on the Client Cleanup Campaign! See you in the next one.
Hey players, BarackProbama and TimTamMonster here, the design and product leads for League’s Behavioral Systems Team. We know that AFKs and leavers are some of the most disruptive behaviors you face, so we're happy to be coming to you today with an update around AFK and Leaver punishments, which we last talked about in April before temporarily tunneling in on Queue Dodging.

One small note for the rest of this article—we'll be referring to the combination of AFK (idle behavior) and Leaving (intentional or otherwise) as just AFK.

Our approach to reducing the frequency of AFKs in games has a few prongs:

Add additional tiers to our penalty structure so that players who continue to AFK/leave consistently, incur these new punishments
Add a new penalty type to shield players from repeat offenders
Improve the way we evaluate attempts to reform in our games
Let’s get into it.

New Penalty Type
Up until now, we've penalized AFKing with Queue Delays. Queue Delays are a speed bump on an offending player’s way to their next few games: Upon clicking the play button, the queue blocks them behind a short timer. The purpose of this is to change behavior. If someone who goes AFK gets to experience what having their time wasted is like, they are less likely to perpetrate it in the future. For most folks Queue Delays work well, but about 9% of our players worldwide engage in consistent AFK behavior and don’t seem to be deterred by a few delays between their games.

091721_PieGraph_AFK_Update_v2.jpg

For players who continue to AFK we are introducing a new penalty: Queue Lockouts, which are basically like mega-delays. When a player experiences a Queue Lockout, they will have a popup displayed explaining their punishment and will be unable to start games in MOBA queues. When we issue a Queue Lockout, we're not saying "hey, doesn't it suck to have your time wasted?" We're removing the player from the population for a while so they can't continue to AFK in games. Once a queue lockout does expire, it's followed by the maximum-level queue delay so we can still maintain the benefits of behavior modification and players who take a break don’t get to sit out their entire punishment. Queue Lockouts apply to all MOBA queues.

An important note is that any player that is currently at a very high tier will be reset to Tier 3. They will get a chance to reform before the Queue Lockouts begin.

This table shows the new tiers as well as their associated lockouts and delays.

Tier

Queue Lockout

Queue Delay

0

None

0 minutes

1

None

5 minutes for 5 games

2

None

10 minutes for 5 games

3

None

15 minutes for 5 games

4 (new tier)

1 day

15 minutes for 5 games

5 (new tier)

3 days

15 minutes for 5 games

6 (new tier)

7 days

15 minutes for 5 games

7 (new tier)

14 days

15 minutes for 5 games

Tier level is not a time-based system. The best (and only) way to lower your penalty tier is to play games without going AFK—you can't just wait it out.

Evaluating Behavior
One challenge we discovered within our existing system was that once a player had reached a high penalty tier it was very difficult for them to lower it even through repeated demonstrations of good behavior. We’ve moved to a more sophisticated model that looks at multiple factors and will be much more effective in moving reformed players down the tiers than the previous one. That said, consistently AFKing will still be detected and consistent offenders will still be doinked.

These changes enabled us to create Queue Lockouts, since it means that we have higher certainty that a player at a high AFK tier is actually being consistently disruptive and isn’t stuck there for other reasons, like intermittent connectivity issues, which can be particularly common in some regions.

Looking Forward
As this is rolled out, we are committed to continue to monitor AFKs, both in regards to the frequency of this behavior and regional specific connectivity issues. We want to ensure we are being equitable across all regions who may experience different levels of connectivity. To be safe, we're going to start by testing these changes in a few regions before rolling them out globally; keep an eye on the patch notes for status updates.

This is not the final word on AFKs. We’re working across teams on gameplay to address some of the root causes of these issues such as:

Not enough ability to come back from behind
Inability to deal with other disruptive behavior in game
Connectivity challenges
We'll have more to share on these subjects in future updates!
Hi everyone, today we’re ready to give an update on the champion you all chose for a VGU earlier this year: Udyr. We’ve been sharing our progress with all major VGUs recently, and not only have you all seemed to really like it, but we’ve also gotten some great feedback early enough to actually affect the direction of the projects. So this feels like a win/win for everyone!

Before we get to the meat of it, let's recap why we chose Udyr and what our goals are. Udyr made it to the VGU poll because he’s one of the last really, really visually outdated champions in the game. Beyond that, his gameplay is over a decade old, and it FEELS like it (unlike, let’s say Lee Sin, who still feels pretty good after all these years).

With that in mind, our main goals for Udyr’s update are…

Preserve Udyr’s stance-changing identity and keep him as a primarily auto-attack/melee-focused champion. We think this is what makes Udyr unique and stand out on the roster. To help his gameplay feel more modern, we’ll be looking to add a bit more interest to his stances and melee pattern to give some more depth to playing him, as well as make it more clear when Udyr is doing something cool (he doesn’t really have a hype gameplay moment right now).
We want to upgrade Udyr’s visuals to modern League standards while keeping his general theme of a warrior shaman intact. Our goal is to build on Udyr’s visuals, not reinvent them.
As for his narrative, we want to bring his in-game portrayal closer to how he’s been portrayed in recent lore and give him stronger ties to the Freljord.
With that, three of the devs currently working on Udyr will go more in-depth on what we’re exploring for Udyr’s gameplay, art, and narrative design.

Shifting Stances
Stash “Stashu” Chelluck, Gameplay Designer:

Hello! Riot Stashu here, and I’d like to talk a bit about how our man-bear-phoenix’s gameplay has been coming along.

I was pretty thrilled when I got the Udyr update because Udyr and I go wayyyy back. I’ve played League for over a decade now, but I still remember the awe I felt when I first scrolled through Udyr’s kit in the shop all those years ago—all melee, no ultimate!? The mad man. I was intrigued and began my stance dancing journey asap. I first learned how to jungle with phoenix Udyr, but soon took him up top lane and had a blast first-blooding my unsuspecting opponents with the unfair red potion + tiger stance start. Eventually I got more into playing champions that had a few more tricks up their sleeves, but me and Udyr spent a long time together kicking butt and he’ll always have a special place in my heart.

06_29_21_02_the_Udyr.jpg

Since Udyr’s early days, it feels like just about everything else about League has changed, and yet somehow his classic style has weathered it all. Even in today’s faster paced, longer-ranged, bigger-and-scarier world, Udyr somehow manages to keep up and throw down with the best of them using his brutally simple kit. His popularity has waxed and waned over the years, but somehow there have always been plenty of players in his corner ready to stance dance and maul their way through the Rift (especially recently, after seeing him clean up in the competitive split).

So! What I’m getting at is that while his straight-forward melee style might not be everyone’s cup of tea, it’s clear that Udyr’s gameplay has stood the test of time. The all-melee brawler has carved out a clear niche for himself, so the plan is to stay true to the Udyr we all know and love with this VGU. You may ask, then, why are we updating his gameplay if he’s so great? Well! We think the core of Udyr is really strong, but see two main areas for improvement:

Variance/High Moments: Udyr’s pace of play is pretty consistent from the moment he dings level two. With no ultimate or other high-power options and a passive that says “always be castin’,” Udyr is constantly churning out medium/low-impact spells and doesn’t hit those jaw-dropping moments that other champions can produce. We’d like to mix this up a little bit, and introduce a few moments where everyone can look over and see Udyr doing something a little more visibly awesome and powerful.

Thematic Execution: Udyr’s “Animal-Shaman-X-Martial-Artist” theme is pretty cool in a vacuum, but doesn’t feel connected to Runeterra in a satisfying way; if Udyr can channel the greatest spiritual powers of the Frejlord, what’s up with the turtle and the monkey? There’s nothing wrong with these animals per se, and we want to keep true to Udyr when possible, but we think that by making a few thematic tweaks, we can make an Udyr that has far more exciting connections to the world around him and to those that would fight him for it. Whatever theming changes we make here, the gameplay will embrace them to really make Udyr shine.

So to summarize, Udyr’s gameplay update will address: adding variance (and high moments) and delivering more strongly on a theme (see the narrative section for a bit more there!). With that in mind, the rest of the design team and I discussed what we believed to be core to Udyr, and decided to try to preserve the following:

Udyr’s kit has four basic abilities that change stances (no ultimate)
Udyr has no aimed/ranged abilities or significant dashes (he’s all-melee)
Udyr can deal and/or withstand a lot of damage, based on build
Udyr can max different stances and plays differently when he does (Tiger vs Phoenix)
With the higher level stuff sorted, we got to work. How did it go in practice? Well, the team brainstormed a bunch of possible ways to heighten Udyr’s high moments. We came up with directions like: Udyr permanently gains a super-buff based on whichever stance he maxes first, Udyr can have two stances active at once, Udyr has an ultimate that turns him into the avatar of whichever current stance he’s in, and dozens more.

Finally after much paper kitting and vetting, we were excited to try a version of Udyr where he got a similar set of four stances as always, but occasionally gets to use a “super version” of each stance.

The original pitch for this “super stance” kit was that stances would passively grow in power as they went unused, such that if Udyr didn’t cast a stance for several minutes it would be SUPER CHARGED and have some special and more powerful effect. Everyone was excited about their forgotten stance occasionally being worth casting, so we tried it out. It had some mixed results; managing this power up was awkward and often ran counter to the things the player naturally wanted to do, but having the power up and using the super-verison of a stance was actually very exciting!

After many iterations and variants of “super stance,” we think there might be something here. Today we’re playing around with kits where Udyr can recast his active stance to use the super version (on a cooldown). We’re still considered other possible directions, but here’s Udyr casting some [experimental] stances and recasting them:

His secondary resource bar indicates the recast cooldown, but the CD was reduced dramatically for this capture.

(Also, yes, that’s a skillshot in there. We experimented with breaking some of those core Udyr rules; it’s good practice to test our assumptions to see if they’re more constraining than useful. In this case, the “all melee” constraint seemed correct so we decided to stick to it.)

My next plan is to explore just how far super stances can go. Should they be simple upgrades to the base stance, or can they be a little more differentiated? What are the craziest effects we can add on empowers? And so on.

And that’s about it! Now remember, we’re still at the point where nearly all of this can change, but I’m feeling pretty good about where we’re going. Thanks for reading, I’m so glad to have been able to share our progress with everyone!

Going into Beast-Mode
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist:

Udyr has been around for a long time—AND has seen a lot of things happen in the world of Runeterra. He's a very unique champion in our roster because he has immense spirit power that he channels in combat, which denotes an extreme ability to have discipline, but his outset appearance is very organic, primal, and almost humble in a way, like that of a monk. No crazy huge armor, extra limbs, demon horns, or anything of that sort, but a primal battle-ready confidence that only someone from the Freljord can possess.

From the first explorations we shared in April, we as a team centered around the Mountain Brawler, Wild Druid, and MMA Shaman, and were even more confident when you all keyed in on those same iterations. We may use some of the other initial explorations as inspiration for his Spirit Guard skin, like for example the Deity Invoker. For base Udyr, we want his melee-feel to take priority because at the end of the day, he still physically attacks his enemies. The Spirit Guard skin leans more into the spirit realm (obviously), so we can get away with more spirit energy visuals there, and then both can have their own unique space.

06_29_21_04_Udyr_First_Spread_riotearp.jpg

Now that we had direction for his base character, I wanted to explore how to visually represent the animal spirit energy he channels.

06_29_21_05_Udyr_Secondary_Exploration_riotearp.jpg

From there my goal was to organize his thematics into three visual pillars (at least in my mind to help me understand his thematic hierarchy):

Freljordian primal shaman: Denoted by antlers, long hair and feathers/trinkets in hair.
Strong melee fighter channeling animal spirits: The big hook here is his body type—-strong but not cut, muscular but not a bodybuilder, with simple fighter rope on his hands/knuckles, giving him the space on his arms to represent what animal he is channeling while his horns would signify the corresponding element (electricity, fire, etc.).
Traveling spirit walker: His travels to Ionia have given him the discipline needed to hone those powers and strengthen his connection to the spirit realm (bead necklace, Ionian rope belt, tattoos/markings).
06_29_21_06_Udyr_Costuming_riotearp.jpg

I'll be first to admit Udyr’s hair was a bit off in the first spread, and lots of you called us out on that! The intent was to give him a cleaner style, almost like that of a fighting game character in order to denote his melee combat abilities, but in doing so I strayed too far from Udyr's shamanistic wandering lifestyle. He's out in the woods, not in the streets, so we explored some options that were more influenced by his lifestyle and wild man aesthetic.

06_29_21_07_Udyr_Hair_Explorations_riotearp.jpg

In refining his overall design, we thought it would be way cooler and more unique if Udyr had tattoos of the animals whose spirit energy he channels. The antlers around his head add a lot to his silhouette, and is a very universal shaman visual. Although we tried versions where he had the antlers on his shoulders, it felt more like an armor set and less interesting than when they were around his head, so I also needed to work out how that attachment worked. Also, he’s a hairy dude!

06_29_21_08_Udyr_Design_Refinement_riotearp.jpg

Next we will be figuring out what each stance will look like—we want to make each stance as powerful-feeling and indicative of the Freljordian animals as possible. Lots to do still, but we wanted to share where we’re headed!

Finding Udyr’s Voice(s?)
Dana Luery “griddlebones” Shaw, Narrative Writer:

One of the first things the team discussed when we started working on Udyr was that he’s got some really cool lore already. Skiptomyluo’s short story “A Walk with the Voices” and WAAAARGHbobo’s “Silence for the Damned” both paint a picture of a man in conflict with spirits, humans, animals, gods, and himself most of all. He’s a man who struggles to walk the line between animal instinct and practiced mastery, between the physical world and the spirits, between overwhelming connection and icy isolation. He lives in this interesting in-between space, where all of these pieces of himself are in conflict with one another and yet he has managed to find the balance within that conflict, to find himself among the endless voices of others.

To me, that’s not a champion that needs a rework, that’s a champion that just needs an update.

We’re not changing much of Udyr’s lore, but we are diving deeper into who he is, how his mind works, how his abilities work, why he fights, why he fights the way that he does, and what his connection to the Freljord looks like. I’d like to bring that idea of “balance within conflict” to the forefront, with his belief that the Freljord thrives on struggle and obstacles and combat, and that peace would be its ultimate undoing. When Udyr fights, he’s fighting to keep the balance of the Freljord by using two sources of strength and tension—physical prowess and spiritual power.

But if Udyr is fighting for the Freljord, with the spirits of the Freljord at his beck and call, you wouldn’t know it from his current stances. Most of his current abilities are linked to animals that sound Ionian, which, sure, he spent many years training there. However, he came of age in the tundra, intensely familiar with its mystical landscape and needs, and has returned to his homeland. Isn’t it time that Udyr’s abilities reflected his home and his heritage?

We’re exploring a few options, but the one I find most compelling is linking his abilities to those of the most powerful spirits in the north: the demigods. Volibear, Anivia, Ornn, and… did you know that there were others? The lore names at least two more. Udyr wouldn’t be drawing on their power directly (“Silence for the Damned” illustrates why that would be a bad idea—Volibear, at least, can exert control over people who tap into his power), but perhaps the animals that most closely resemble the demigods are enveloped in their spiritual energy and can lend him their own enhanced strength.

And though the demigods are the most powerful beings of the Freljord, they aren’t necessarily the most powerful beings in the Freljord. Those would be far beneath the ice, under the watchful eyes of the same people who killed Udyr’s tribe when he was young. Perhaps there’s a connection there, another path for Udyr’s story to walk...

What’s Next?
We’re planning to release Udyr in 2022, so you can expect the next /dev blog towards the end of the year, once we enter full production. In the meantime, we’d love to hear what you think so far: What excites you? What would you want to see more of? Does anything feel untrue to Udyr? We’ll be reading through your thoughts and feedback, as we want your help in making the best warrior-animal-shaman-martial-artist-monk possible.
Hi everyone, lately I’ve been noticing more players in various places talking about how we’ve been making more human champions and fewer monsters. This was an intentional shift on the Champions Team, so I thought it’d be good to go over our thinking so you can better understand how we got here.

New Ways to Play
First, let’s start with why we still make new champions, since for me “because we’ve always made new champions” isn’t really a strong enough answer.

The main reason we continue to make new champions is that we believe part of League’s magic is its never-ending mastery curve. Learning new things is fun and keeps players excited to keep playing. Once you’ve learned everything about a game, it can start to become less engaging. While new players have plenty of new things to try and learn in League, we have millions of players that have been playing for years—some even since League first launched.

02_Warwick_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

Preseason is one of the ways to majorly shake up and improve the game once a year, but champions are how we add new gameplay mechanics at a more consistent and regular interval. Every new champion we create adds new gameplay to learn to play as or against, which is one of the reasons why we try to ensure all new champions have a unique playstyle.

The kicker here though is that for new champions to hit their goal, they need to be picked and played in games. If they aren't played much, then they don’t really achieve their goal of adding something new for many players to learn. This isn’t to say that all champs need to achieve this goal, as part of the fun in League is playing against that really niche champ you don’t see that often but that really mixes up the game when you do. Niche champions can also deeply resonate with a smaller number of players in a way broadly-appealing champions could never do.

Theme is Queen
With all that in mind, back in 2017 we made it a more explicit goal to ship more broadly-appealing champions. We did a lot of research into what makes a champion broadly appealing or niche by surveying players all over the world. What we found was that one of the major things that made a champion more relatable and appealing was when they were human. There are many other factors of course, like how attractive, dark, powerful, edgy, cute, fashionable, skillful, etc. a champion is. But with the exception of a few outliers (like Kha’Zix and Yuumi), almost every champion that’s broadly played is a humanoid of some kind. Humans just seem to be more relatable to other humans—it’s probably why so much fiction in our world revolves around people.

I know some of you are going to say, “Doesn’t the gameplay matter more than the theme or visuals? If monster champs had better kits, then more people would play them.” While this is true to an extent, it’s only true for some players—in fact based on our data, it looks like a champion’s playrate is a combination of actual power, perceived power, and thematic resonance, with theme being one of the BIG parts of that equation.

03_Xin_Zhao_Splash_5_26_21.jpg

One of the ways you can see evidence of this is by looking at the different playrates of some champions from region to region. Champions don’t have different gameplay in different regions, and yet Jinx is more popular in western regions (where the punk rock aesthetic is more resonant) than eastern regions. In contrast, Xin Zhao and Jarvan are more popular in China. Yasuo is popular everywhere, but he is extremely popular in eastern regions. And it’s not just those examples: Champion popularity varies between regions and a lot of the variance can be linked to how resonant that type of theme is in that region.

We also see a heavy connection between champions that rate highly on the survey question,“Do you like this champion’s theme?” and their popularity. There are outliers of course, like if a champion’s kit is so esoteric that it hinders people from playing them, even if they like their theme. This can cause a champion with a broadly-appealing theme to have a much lower playrate than expected. Aurelion Sol, for example, generally gets very high scores for theme and visuals but very low scores for gameplay, and ends up a lot more niche than a dragon-themed champ ought to be.

04_Aurelion_Sol_Splash_5_26_21.jpg

Also when I talk about play rate, I’m referring to all PvP game modes where players select a champion. In solo queue, the higher up the ladder you go, the more a champion’s power drives pick rate (rather than theme), but high MMR is a very small percentage of League’s total playerbase. Because having a champion you love is a major factor in whether someone continues to play League, regardless of rank, we tend to consider the entire playerbase when designing champions.

The Rise of the Humans
So now that we’ve covered that engagement is the primary reason we make new champions and that theme impacts engagement, let’s talk about how we got to where we are today.

We started to subtly shift our strategy back in 2017 as we began to make a clearer framework around broad and niche appeal. Then in 2018, the Champions Team made it an official strategy to target 70% broadly-appealing champions and 30% niche champions. We also include VGUs in the breakdown since they also drive engagement and usually bring new mechanics to learn.

Going back to our main goal for champions (engagement), if we were to release two niche VGUs in a year, and also a few niche champions, then overall we wouldn't really be driving very high engagement. So the main reason for the shift to making more broadly-appealing new champions, and thus more humans, started officially back in 2018.

Recently though, there’s been a second reason we’ve continued to make a large amount of human champions. That reason is that representation has been a larger goal for the Champions Team in the last couple years, and we’ve been trying to make more champions that are inspired by different cultures around the world. And while Runeterra isn’t Earth—so our goal isn’t to make champs that perfectly reflect real world locations—we have made a stronger effort to make champions inspired by regions everywhere. We want all players to be able to see themselves in the games they play, and League champs are no exception.

05_Samira_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

This is something we’ve become really passionate about on the Champions Team, which you’ll see reflected in some of our recent (and upcoming) champions. For example, Samira was inspired by Persian culture, Viego by conquistador-era Spanish culture, and so on. To do good cultural representation though, you almost certainly need to make humans, or at least champions that are close enough to humans that people can relate to and identify with them. So this is another reason we’ve been doing more humans recently.

All That Said…
Even with all of this, we think we’ve leaned a bit too heavy on straight-up humans in the last couple years. Lately we’ve been making one non-human a year, but that also included human-ish champions (like yordles) or semi-human champions (like Lillia), as well as creatures like Yuumi. We reflected on that and decided to instead group champions into 3 categories rather than 2 (human and non-human). The three new categories are human, humanoid, and creatures.

06_Vel_Koz_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

Humans include any champion that is mostly human, or very close to it, like Lucian, Senna, Yone, Pyke, and Jhin. Humanoids include any champion that is half human, or at least are pretty close anatomically to a human, like Lillia, Urgot, Renekton, Aatrox, yordles, and so on. The last category is creatures, which includes any champion that doesn’t resemble a human at all, like Rek’Sai, Vel’Koz, Yuumi, Aurelion Sol, Skarner, etc. It’s worth noting that this isn’t an exact science (is Zac more humanoid or creature?), but the general categories are helpful.

"Monster" isn't one of the categories because that's more about aesthetic than anatomy. Aatrox and Renekton are examples of monstrous humanoids, whereas Yuumi is an example of a non-monstrous creature.

We have plans to make a new creature champion in 2022 since it’s been a while, the last one being Yuumi. While it made sense to make a cute creature like Yuumi since the game was lacking in cute creatures, we want the next one to be on the darker side. This doesn’t mean we’ll do a full creature every year, as they are pretty niche, but we do want to make more non-human champions going forward.

07_Renekton_Splash_Art_5_26_21.jpg

I hope this at least gives some clarity as to why we shifted to creating more human champions, even if you disagree with the shift. If you’re a fan of monstrous champions, I think 2022 will have some champs that appeal to you, even in the humanoid group.

Thanks for all the continued support you all have given us on the Champions Team over the years. We appreciate you all.
Over the last couple years, we’ve released quite a few posts about our approach to balance. So today, we wanted to do a quick recap, complete with summaries and links out. You can think of it like a greatest hits album, except with no music and more text.

League Balance for Bronzies Video

In our first ever animated balance explainer, we break down our balance approach ELI5-style. It features adorable doodles of Ornn, Amumu, Ezreal, and design lead Mark “Riot Scruffy'' Yetter.

/dev: Balance Framework Update
Ever since 2019, we’ve used a data framework known as the Champion Balance Framework to guide us in determining which champions should be buffed and nerfed each patch. It involves looking at the win rates of every champion across all roles and various skill brackets, then using that information to determine how to address balance outliers. This post breaks down the data thresholds and why we decided to use this framework in the first place.

/dev: Balancing New Champions
It takes time for players to master new champions, which is why we used to release new champs and VGUs slightly strong as a form of training wheels. This approach had some serious drawbacks, so ever since Fiddlesticks' update in 2020, we’ve started releasing new champs and VGUs at what we believe to be their long-term balance state. More deets on the pros and cons of this approach found in this post.

/dev: Balancing for Pro Play
Professional play makes up one of the skill brackets we look at when determining which champions to buff and nerf, but we also have some other balance goals that are unique to the professional scene. This post breaks down what we think a healthy pro meta looks like at a high level, both for the regular season and for major international tournaments (like Worlds).

/dev: Updated Approach to Item Balancing
When we updated League’s item system in late 2020, one of our goals was to encourage build diversity. To that end, we created an item balance framework to help us identify when items are too strong or weak, based on their build rates across champions and classes. You can read more about our approach to item balance and check out the framework here.

/dev: Life of a Patch
If you ever wanted to know what goes on behind-the-scenes when we’re making a patch, then this post is for you. It’s a summary of the project we did back in 2019, where we live-Tweeted our progress on patch 9.13.
Hi everyone, today we want to talk about game clarity in League. It’s one of those things we’re always thinking about behind the scenes, but it only really becomes noticeable when we get something wrong—like when a hitbox doesn’t match an effect or a skin is too hard to read. In a perfect world, this never happens. But with over 150 champs and 1000 skins—not to mention items, runes, and neutral objectives—we’re bound to make mistakes sometimes.

That said, we think we can do better, which is why we’ve been putting extra effort into gameplay clarity in recent years. You’ll see this in things like champion VFX and SFX updates, but it’s also something we’re constantly thinking about during development. So today, we want to share what that looks like for champions and skins.

But first, let’s talk about our goals.

The Unbreakable Vows
We see clarity as the ability to understand what’s happening in League and respond to it. Because League is highly competitive, this is obviously quite important.

There are three major things we strive for:

First and foremost, gameplay should be clearly conveyed. League’s visuals and audio should help you quickly identify and react to champions, spells, and attacks. You should also be able to generally understand mechanics just by experiencing them in game.
The second goal is to always preserve hierarchy. This is a fancy way of saying that the most important thing at any given moment (like a major ultimate or CC) should draw the most attention. This means maintaining a proper hierarchy both within a champion’s kit and between champions and other gameplay elements (like item effects).
Finally, noise should be kept minimal. This doesn’t just mean audio—visual noise adds up quickly and can make it difficult to react properly in teamfights. Flashiness can feel great, especially with skins, but it comes at a cost. (Exception: Spells with big gameplay effects can and should be noisy, to a degree.)
Now let’s jump into the fun stuff, aka how we design champions with clarity in mind.

Ults, Cats, and BFGs
When we think about clarity for champions, there are two main considerations: silhouettes and abilities.

Silhouettes
Silhouettes are the single most important thing for champion recognition in League. This is basically a champion’s shadow: What do they look like shrouded in darkness?

02_Champ_Silhouettes.jpg

A good silhouette is one with a defining primary characteristic that’s unique to that champion: Think Senna’s gun, Diana’s moon weapon, or Yuumi… being a cat. Even when we make skins, a champion’s primary characteristic should never change.

Silhouettes also include animation, but ideally that’s more of a bonus differentiator rather than a main one. For example, Ivern’s lanky figure stands out on its own, but his goofy walk also adds to his recognizability.

03_Ivern_Walk.gif

Lee Sin, on the other hand, has a fairly generic shape, so a lot of his silhouette is carried by his animations. (Which is okay, although it can complicate skin design, which we’ll talk about later.)

04_Lee_Sin_Animation.gif

Beyond easy recognition, a champion’s silhouette should highlight their source of power. This is especially important for new players who have to learn what 150+ champions do. If you see someone with a bow, you can assume they’ll fire arrows from a distance. A champion with a staff probably casts spells. And one with shotgun knees… shoots… you?

05_Urgie_Knees.jpg

The size of a champion’s silhouette can also say something about their playstyle. For example, larger champions with bulky armor are probably tanks or fighters. A tiny innocent yordle probably isn’t.

06_Garen_Teemo.jpg

Last but not least, it should be clear which direction a champion is facing from their silhouette alone. You should know whether someone is charging towards you or away at a glance.

Abilities
The second major consideration for champion clarity is their abilities. This is an area that can quickly become frustrating, particularly when hitboxes don’t line up with their effects. Over the past few years, we’ve been working to update the VFX for some of League’s older champions who aren’t hitting the bar, and we have more VFX updates planned for 2021, starting with Hecarim.

Champion VFX Updates
Hecarim’s VFX Update

Hecarim’s VFX Update

Sona’s VFX Update

Thresh’s VFX Update

Ahri’s VFX Update

Veigar’s VFX Update
Hecarim’s VFX Update
Beyond hitboxes, one of the most important things for abilities is that they follow hierarchy rules. In other words, the amount of attention an ability grabs should match its level of importance.

How important a spell is depends on a lot of things, including…

How much damage does it do? Spells that do more damage should draw more attention. Zoe’s Q is an example of this done well—it’s bright, saturated, and has an audio cue ahead of time.
Does it CC? Spells with hard CC and/or high-duration CC should stand out. Taric’s stun is a good example—it’s bright, there’s an audio wind-up, and a well-defined hitbox.
Is it dodgeable? If something is dodgeable, it should draw more attention. While not a champion ability, Arcane Comet is an example of this done poorly—the big circle on the ground implies a lot more dodgeability than what’s realistic.
Does it have a large impact on play? Spells that drastically change how you play with or against them should be flashy. The audio and visuals and on Kayle’s ultimate are a good example—it’s bold, but the impact is high.
12_Morgana_Hierarchy.jpg

Beyond upholding hierarchy, there are specific gameplay considerations to a spell’s audio and visual design. Feel free to click through if you’re curious!

Ability Considerations
Direction

Direction

Color Pallette

Color Pallette

Shape Language

Shape Language

Audio
Direction
Projectiles should convey the direction they’re traveling, even without motion. This can often be accomplished by “blurring” the tail end of the effect.

Filling Up Buckets
The main clarity challenge with skins is creating something that feels meaningfully different from the base champion while ensuring they’re still recognizable. If we go too hard, then we sacrifice game clarity. But if we don’t go hard enough, it’s not going to feel satisfying.

In a way, skin development is like filling a bucket, where each discipline—like animation, VFX, SFX, and so on—can dump some water in. Our goal is to get that bucket nice and full without overflowing it.



How much water each discipline adds varies from skin to skin. Sometimes we focus on VFX and SFX, so we keep the model and animations closer to base. Other times we go for a full animation refresh, so we split the difference elsewhere. In the end, the complete experience should make it quick and easy to identify the champion at all times. This means we’ll never turn everything up to 11, as we’d end up with something exciting that’s seriously damaging to clarity.

You Care About What!?
Now that we’ve addressed the timeless struggle between coolness and clearness, let’s run through some specifics.

Silhouettes
A champion’s silhouette can be broken into three parts: primary, secondary, and tertiary. A champion’s primary feature should never be removed or significantly altered in any skin. We’d never give Senna a pea-shooter or turn Yuumi into a human, for example.



There’s a little more leeway with secondary and tertiary features, especially if a champion has a strong primary read. High Noon Senna is a great example of this: Her body’s silhouette is noticeably different from her base, but because she still has her iconic gun, she’s immediately recognizable.



Champions whose silhouettes are carried through animation can be challenging to make Legendary (or Ultimate) skins for. This is because changing their animations has a greater impact on their silhouette, which adds more water to the bucket. If you add in some flashy VFX, SFX, and model changes, it’s easy to lose the champion’s identity. This is another reason why we want every new champion to have a strong primary feature.

Abilities
We use a champion’s base abilities as the clarity bar when designing skins. In other words... Every ability should be at least as clear as the base skin because skins should never be pay-to-win. Abilities on skins can be slightly clearer than on base, but we don’t really want anything to be pay-to-lose either, so our goal is clarity parity.



Established shape language should be used for skins as well, like scrolling-down lines for spell shields.

Abilities should also maintain hierarchy and not add excess noise to the game, which means we should be intentional with the extra bells and whistles. That said, we sometimes overshoot this. We want to make the best, most exciting skins possible, and it’s a delicate balance between that and gameplay noise and hierarchy.

In the end, our goal is to release skins that feel great with abilities that are clear even during the most chaotic teamfights. With that in mind, here’s a look at some specific changes we’ve made during development because of various clarity concerns. Peruse at your leisure!

Changes From Development
Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin

Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin

Coven Zyra

Nightbringer Vladimir

Mecha Kingdoms Garen

Dawnbringer Soraka
Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin
The borders of Shan Hai Scrolls Jhin’s Curtain Call originally faded out while the ult opened, making them very difficult to see during the opening sequence. We adjusted the lines so they’re always visible.

Maps
Now onto a few final considerations, starting with maps. Surprising no one, skins should be clear no matter which map you’re on. We haven’t always been the best at this, but these days we check every skin across all maps to make sure we don’t end up with any more Freljord Taliyahs on the Howling Abyss.



Transformations
It’s important that any significant or lasting transformations are only be used during homeguards or other empowered states. Spirit Blossom Ahri’s fox transformation is an example of this done well—you only see her full-fox form in homeguards and human-fox form while her ult is active.

On the other hand, near-permanent transformations like Solar and Lunar Eclipse Leona’s are something we’d like to avoid going forward. Unless you’re familiar with the skin, it’s unclear whether her glowing means she’s transformed or has Q active and is about to bop you.

29_Solar_Eclipse_Leona.jpg

Cosmetic Animations
Last but not least, let’s talk about cosmetic animations, like recalls, dances, taunts, and so on. In short: None of these animations should provide a competitive advantage. This may seem obvious, but sometimes these animations get too flashy (especially when spammed) or have champions “abandoning” their hitboxes.

Pool Party Renekton is the poster crocodile for this. Spamming his recall sure looks fun, but it’s distracting and his hitbox never changes, even as his model appears to move upward. Going forward, we have a strict rule where champions must stay in their recall circle for at least two seconds, but really, we’d like it if they stayed there all the time.



The End
That’s all we have for today! We hope our extra efforts around clarity become more noticeable with time. If there are any skins or champs you’re curious how we approached clarity for, feel free to send ‘em our way using this form.

Thanks for reading. You’re all lovely. Goodbye!
Hello everyone! I’m Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay on League of Legends.

Last year, we shared frequent updates about ongoing improvements to ranked, matchmaking, and behavioral systems. However, we’ve been relatively quiet on the Clash front. As we kick off a new season of Clash, we want to recap 2020 and share notes on improvements we're targeting for 2021.

2020 Recap
2020 was the year we finally launched Clash after what seemed like an eternity in development. For those of you who were around for our first betas before we finally stuck the landing, thank you for staying patient with us.

Even after our first successful tournament, there were still rough points with game starts and heavy server load that we had to fix. We dedicated the majority of 2020's development to infrastructure improvements, sustainable tournament operations (fewer humans needed to run, and if necessary, fix a tournament), and better tech to support Clash's large number of game starts. While we still run into the occasional network issue (particularly anything that affects League as a whole), we're in a much stabler state. 

As stability and sustainability improved, we began chipping away at areas of improvement within Clash's design. These included a way for players to see their past awards, initial Clash matchmaking improvements and smurf detection, v1 of Build-A-Team, the expanded 16-team Worlds tournament brackets, and even some Clash-themed flair in the loading screen and in-game HUD to hype up the experience. We're continuing this segue into design work as we head into the new year.

2021 Clash Priorities
Clash is still at the start of its journey to become the best competitive organized play experience for League players everywhere. This year, we're focusing on three of the biggest problems that reduce player interest and excitement for Clash.

Provide Players better ways to find others to fill out their roster
Reduce barriers to entry for Clash
Identify and action smurfs earlier in Clash
We'll roll improvements out as they're ready and iterate on them patch by patch.

Build-A-Team
About half of players surveyed consistently state that the number one pain point around Clash is how hard it is to fill out their roster. We’re launching a v2 of our `Build-a-Team` feature with the Zaun Cup this weekend. Here's what it does:

(v1) Solo players can mark themselves as Free Agents in the Clash tab and specify their primary and secondary role.
(v1) Team Captains can see available Free Agents when inviting players to join the team
(v2) Free Agents have access to a Find a Team page where they'll see teams looking for members and can apply to join
Team Captains can mark their team as Closed if they're not looking for applications
(v2) Team Captains get a notification when Free Agents apply to the team, and can see all pending applications on the invite screen
We're focusing on the initial step of forming teams because we think teams who have a good tournament experience together will naturally want to group up again in the future. Once we see frustration around team formation subside, we'll be able to look for opportunities to make Clash even more exciting for teams who consistently play together!

Barrier to Entry Reduction
At the beginning of the year, we allowed players who hadn't finished 2021 placements to compete in the Shadow Isles cup as long as they were ranked in Season 2020. Overall, it was a good step in allowing those that didn’t want to rush through their placements to participate, and we’re deciding to keep it around for future seasons so teams can play together in January without having to grind out 10 ranked matches first.

Scheduling is another barrier to entry we want to address. We're upping Clash's cadence from once a month to every two weeks so one unlucky scheduling conflict doesn't leave you unable to Clash for eight weeks straight. We’re also exploring opportunities to run more special Clashes throughout the year, including during the week for those players who can’t consistently make weekends. You can also expect to see the 16-team Conqueror and Worlds Clashes return at the middle and end of the season, respectively.

Skill Detection
Across 2020, we saw skill detection sentiment and fairness of matches decrease by ~8%. This signals fairly clearly that matches are being made that aren’t necessarily meeting players expectations, even though our metrics are reporting relative stability. Between high-MMR smurf accounts and a broadening of player participation, there are some key areas that we would like to dig into to see how far we can push improvements here.

Specifically, we’re exploring how to bring 2020's Ranked matchmaking improvements into Clash. This means better skill detection for new accounts that have little ranked data beyond the 10 placement matches required to play Clash, as well as providing more clarity around match quality expectations to tournament participants.

Overall, 2021 aims to improve the design foundations of Clash so it can grow naturally as a competitive ecosystem over time. Ultimately, we aim for Clash to be an experience that offers the best teamplay League of Legends has to offer. Good luck in the Clash season kick-off this weekend!
Welcome to the third of our four-part blog series from the Summoner’s Rift Team! Last year, we ran the Life of a Patch campaign, sharing insight on how we put together a League of Legends balance patch (here's a summary!). We're tackling a few major, persistent balance topics in more depth than we can get to through patch notes, social media, or Meddler and Scruffy's weekly posts.

Here's what you can expect:

Blog 1, late June: State of the Champion Balance Framework, with details on what we’ve adjusted since its inception last year
Blog 2, early July: Updated approach to balancing new champs and VGUs
Blog 3, mid August: Balancing for Pro play and major tournaments like Worlds
Blog 4, early September: Balancing runes and items (with a few callouts for preseason 2021)
This time, we're talking about how we balance Summoner’s Rift for the highest level of League: Pro play.

Balancing for the Regular Season
Outside of patches that major tournaments like MSI and Worlds will be played on, the Champion Balance Framework governs our approach to Pro play balance.02_Balance_Framework_June_v1.jpg
You’ll notice that we primarily focus on the top four regions for professional play (LCK, LPL, LEC, LCS), even though there are 12 regional leagues globally. The top four regions are determined by current Worlds seeding rules, which are a reflection of each region’s international performance (success at MSI/Worlds) over recent years.

In professional play, we focus on presence—which is the aggregate of picks and bans—as a measure of power instead of win rate. Win rate is less valuable here because the sample size on any given patch makes it a less reliable measure of power. At most, we see around 200 pro matches on a single patch, which is barely a whisper of a fraction of a percent of the amount of data we need to feel confident balancing around win rate.

We use two layers to identify overpowered champions in Pro play. Any champion that hits a presence of 95% (90% for MSI/Worlds) or higher in one patch will receive a nerf. This ensures that any spikes in champion power due to a recent buff are quickly dealt with. The second layer looks at presence over two consecutive patches with a lowered threshold of 85% (80% for MSI/Worlds). This ensures that there isn’t a small group of borderline-OP champions sitting at the top of the meta for too long.

We use 5% presence as our identifier for underpowered champions at the professional level. We’ve set it at 5% to ensure presence is not just a one-time player or champion pocket pick, but something that can be viable in multiple games.

Regular Season Champion Diversity Targets
In addition to the Balance Framework's targets, we’ve also set meta diversity targets for each segment of play. For Pro play, our current target is for 45% of champions to have 5%+ presence. We think this target represents a healthy meta where multiple strategies are viable and multiple champions can fill a variety of roles in those strategies.03_Meta_Diversity_Targets_v1.jpg
Pro Play vs. Everyone Else
The Champion Balance Framework only recommends we buff a champion when they are underpowered at all levels of play. This means that absence from Pro play on its own doesn’t guarantee we'll buff a champion (though we may still choose to, if we can avoid making them OP elsewhere). Amumu is an example of a champion who typically excels in Average play but doesn’t really show up in Pro play. We’re okay with this because it’s expected that some champs are better for some audiences than others.

One of the challenges we run into when balancing for Pro play is ensuring that the changes we make don't have an overly negative impact on other levels of play.

“THIS IS BECAUSE BALANCE CHANGES MADE TO SUMMONER’S RIFT WILL ALWAYS BE THE SAME FOR ALL PLAYERS: FROM IRON TO THE TOP PROFESSIONAL LEAGUES, WE'RE ALL PLAYING ON THE SAME RIFT.”
Balancing for Worlds
Unlike the regular season of Pro play that patches every two weeks, Worlds is played on one patch over six weeks to ensure a consistent strategic playing field throughout the course of the tournament. This means the meta on the Worlds patch becomes significantly more optimized than other patches as teams hone in on and perfect the most powerful strategies and champions of the patch. In an ideal world, this also means we as fans get to experience a tournament where the meta evolves, counters are created for dominant strategies, and the diversity of champs and playstyle is abundant.

But sometimes the optimizations have too few counters. Many of you may recall Worlds 2017 where pros identified the somewhat-overlooked power of an Ardent Censer change we made at the start of the season—even after we made a small preventative nerf before the strategy truly took off. The result was a meta focused around a single strategy: protect the ADC. While some neat counters were developed to this strategy (remember Fervor Leona?), the meta was too unilaterally solidified in a safe, late-game style—which is something we want to avoid.

To combat overpowered strategies, we’ve started minimizing large and systemic balance changes during the lead up to Worlds to ensure a stable meta with multiple strategic options.

This generally means dramatic balance shifts won’t happen after the Summer Split has begun.

04_Lulu.jpg
No 100% Presence Champions
One major goal we set for Worlds in recent years is to have no champion at 100% pick/ban (aka 100% presence) over the course of the tournament. We know that draft strategy is very important and complex at the professional level, and when a champion becomes mandatory to pick or ban in every game, it has a negative impact on how teams are able to approach the draft and champion diversity suffers. This often manifests when there is little or no opportunity for pros to play a new or VGU'd champion during the Summer Split or Playoffs, meaning we don't have data to balance these champs for Worlds.

We came close to hitting this goal in 2019, but Pantheon still made it to 100% pick/ban. Pantheon was an important learning point because his VGU had less than one patch of Pro play before Worlds. To combat situations like this, we worked with the Global Competitive Operations Team to create a new policy for new champions and VGUs:

“NEW CHAMPIONS AND VGUS MUST BE ENABLED FOR PLAYOFFS IN ALL FOUR OF THE TOP REGIONS IN ORDER TO BE PLAYABLE AT THE NEXT INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENT.”
For 2020, that means Lillia will be enabled for Worlds, but Yone will not be.05_Lillia.jpg
Worlds Champion Diversity Targets
For pro tournaments, we tighten our diversity bands by an extra 5%—which means it increases to 90% in one patch or 80% across two patches—to ensure optimal diversity. This gives professional players a wider variety of ways to demonstrate their skills on the biggest stage and also leads to a more exciting viewer experience.

Our perspective on champion diversity at Worlds has evolved over the years. We've shifted from caring whether a champion shows up in Pro at all to whether they show up enough to influence the meta. Our approach now includes the 5%+ presence group because we think this is a stronger indicator of whether a champion is viable, and not just picked or banned once for a certain player or game.

In 2019, 62% of champs were picked/banned at least once, but only 41% had 5%+ presence.

For 2020, we're focusing on maximizing the number of champions that have 5%+ presence at Worlds in pursuit of our 45% of the roster goal. This means we’d like to see 67 unique champion picks with a presence in at least 5% of games.

06_Kha_Zix.jpg
It’s worth noting that any champion buffs we make for a tournament like Worlds are still expected to fall within the Champion Balance Framework bands for all groups of play.

In years past, we’ve been pretty aggressive with our attempts to get champions in Worlds. This has been successful in increasing champion diversity, but at times, the player pain it has caused hasn’t been worth it.

Season 8 Kha’Zix is a good example of this. We buffed the slow on his Void Spike before Worlds because we knew his utility would be the most impactful to Pro play. This made him too strong, but more damning, it made him a kiting, peeling beast, which was also counter to his champion fantasy.

Fast forward to this year, where Kha’Zix again had room for buffs. This time, we amplified his Isolation damage, which is much more true to his champion fantasy. We went a bit too far in terms of sheer power, though, and have since pulled back in patch 10.16.

Another example worth calling out is Caitlyn's buffs in patch 10.15. We had a specific goal for buffing her—more on that in a minute—but she's now on the line of becoming overpowered in regular play. She's also a champion who frustrates players even before crossing OP thresholds, so we're watching her performance closely.

07_Caitlyn.jpg
Worlds Position Diversity
In addition to overall champion diversity at Worlds, we’ve also set some position targets because we think it’s important to see a healthy diversity of matchups across all lanes. In 2020, our target is to have at least 10 picks per position at a 5%+ presence at Worlds.

When looking to introduce champions into the Pro tournament meta, we want to validate that the top picks in each position have a variety of timing spikes and win conditions.

For 2020, we accomplished this by assessing the Pro meta leading up to the Worlds patch, noting which positions have fewer than 10 picks. Based on the power spikes and win conditions of the champions already present, we looked for picks we could buff into viability who would add more strategic diversity. Because of our limited opportunity to follow up on these changes, buffing individual champs is much safer than making systemic changes that affect more champions in a less direct manner. If we overbuff a single champion, our worst case scenario is that champion becomes 100% pick/ban. If we overbuff an entire category of champions via systems changes, we get another Ardent Censer meta.

Worlds 2020: Marksman/Bot Carry Diversity
The marksman/bottom lane carry position has been one of our least diverse roles over the course of the 2020 season.

When looking to create more champion diversity for Worlds 2020, we recognized that nerfing Varus to a healthier level of presence meant the position would skew much more toward mid-to-late game picks with Aphelios, Ashe, Ezreal, and Kai’Sa as likely frontrunners. So when looking for new candidates to add to the pool, we wanted to find champs who support early game strats alongside Kalista and Varus. Caitlyn and Miss Fortune were our go-to options for champions that can force pressure in lane and offer different power spike timings than the current set of top meta marksmen.

08_Miss_Fortune.jpg
Worlds 2020: Top Lane Diversity
We also wanted to increase champion diversity in top lane for Worlds 2020. When reviewing the meta champions, we felt we had a good spread of power spike timings represented. Renekton, Jayce, and Volibear have good early presence. Kennen and Wukong are good mid-game choices. Ornn, Camille, and Kayle round out the picks as late game champions.

We considered buffing Vladimir to add him as an additional late-game option that could counter some meta champions, but we opted out of it. First, we don’t want to have “scaling to late game” as the dominant choice across multiple roles, and ADC is already at risk on this front. Second, Vlad has been sporting a solid (but not dominant) win rate of 51.5% in Skilled play for the mid lane. Vladimir is strong enough and played enough that forcing him further into the meta—especially for Skilled play—seemed unwise.

While champion timing spikes were generally appropriate top lane, we still saw a limited number of strategies. The win conditions felt like they were either 1) win hard enough early to create teamfight advantages, or 2) play an excellent front-to-back teamfighting champion who doesn't have to win early. This is why we decided to buff Jax and Fiora, both who try to stretch out teams for split pushing and aren’t great in 5v5s.

09_Fiora.jpg
Champion Diversity Across Seasons
Our end goal isn’t to see all champions or strategies equally represented at every Worlds. We like that the pro meta evolves season over season, and that each Worlds has different sets of memorable playstyles and strategies (even if some of them are remembered more for their heels than their heroes—we're not looking to repeat 2015 Juggernauts or 2017 Censer). Likewise, we’re not forcing a repeat of Worlds 2019’s dominance of assassins and safe marksmen. The highest level of games in Pro play are already looking incredibly exciting, and we expect some innovative and hype strategies and picks to emerge at Worlds 2020.
Looking Forward
Our balance approach for Pro play currently focuses on champion power and diversity, but we want to continue to evolve. We're starting to track other stats that may be good indicators of exciting matches, like average kills per game. We’re also working on expanding our frameworks to apply to all international competitive tournaments like MSI, where our goals are the same but targets may differ to account for fewer games being played.

We’ll be back next month for our final /dev blog in this balance series, where we’ll be talking about how we balance game systems like runes and items, with a few callouts to how Pro play factors into this and some references to the upcoming item overhaul in Preseason 2021.
Editorial note: Welcome to the second installment of our four-part series on Spirit Blossom. Check out post one, “Crafting Spirit Blossom,” to find out how the thematic development team created the world. And be sure to come back the next two Tuesdays for a look at how we made “The Path, An Ionian Myth” and “Kin of the Stained Blade,” as well as Spirit Blossom’s sound design.

We’ve finally done it. We’ve gone full anime. And now you can date form deep emotional connections with the champions you already love.

“Lol wtf Riot? What are you doing? Why? Stop. Please stop.”

No. We won’t stop. And here’s why: When the thematic development team started working on Spirit Blossom, they realized they were onto something special—a unique and delicious blend of League and anime—and they wanted to do it justice.

And when lead producer of Spirit Blossom Ryan “Reav3” Mireles saw the world the team was creating, he knew exactly what it needed: a visual novel.

01_Riven_Angry.jpg


We An Anime Company Now
“When we originally started working on Spirit Blossom we intended to make a versus event. There are the kanmei and akana, so we thought it worked really well,” says Reav3. “But as I talked to the narrative team it became clear that wouldn’t work. The spirits aren’t good or evil—they’re just shades of grey. Then someone suggested embracing the anime part of the thematic. Many of us are huge fans, so it just kind of made sense.”

There’s no hiding the fact that a lot of Rioters like anime. It may be safe to call some of us weebs (stares pointedly at Sett). This was our opportunity to really do anime. But what does that even mean in the context of League?

02_Ahri_Neutral_WaistUp.png
Reav3 went home that night and pondered that exact question. Aside from making an actual anime, one choice leapt to mind: making a visual novel. But we needed to do it right. We couldn’t lose League’s essence or compromise the champions that players have grown to love. 

Even though Reav3 could boast “playing literally thousands of hours of visual novels,” he had never actually made one. And besides, just because one person has an idea doesn’t mean it magically happens. You need a team. A weeb dream team.
03_Vayne_Shocked_Blush.jpg
Why Can’t We Hold All This Anime?
“It was my first day back in the office after being out with the flu for two weeks when Reav3 came up to me and said, ‘I have an idea and it’s bad,’” recalls thematic development narrative lead Jared “Carnival Knights” Rosen. “And then he told me he wanted to make a visual novel and I was like, all right. Let’s do it!”

Unlike Reav3, Carnival Knights actuallyhas worked on visual novels. Two, in fact. So he started bringing Reav3’s idea to life by taking a look at the roster of champions and figuring out how they’d fit in Spirit Bonds.

Spirit Blossom champions embody different myths within Ionian culture. Yone and Yasuo are brothers torn apart who seek reconciliation. Cassiopeia is the incarnation of temptation. Teemo embodies a trickster spirit (and totally won’t play any pranks on you—nope! Definitely not!). Ahri is the shepherd of souls. Vayne must overcome her inner demons. Kindred are the avatars of death. Lillia protects the spirits within her grove. And Riven must come to terms with her own death.
With these basic storylines down, Carnival Knights got to work delegating to the team of (eight) writers. Some were very familiar with the champions, having created them for League. Others were coming in relatively fresh, but still full of ideas.
05_Cassiopeia_Smirk.jpg
“I wanted to make sure the writers had a lot of fun with Spirit Bonds, so I encouraged them to use their own voices and just... see where the story took them,” Carnival Knights explains. “Then managing narrative editor Thomas “Riot Wilkingham” Cunningham and I did edit passes to ensure they were in a cohesive voice. It was a lot of work, but really fulfilling. These writers are all incredibly talented, so going back and seeing what they came up with when it was all over was really, really cool.”

But beyond fitting into the Spirit Blossom world, the champions needed to be anime.
06_Thresh_Demon_Blush.jpg
“I’m... the weebiest weeb in the group,” admits concept art lead Gem “Lonewingy” Lim. “That meant I ended up providing the ‘professional knowledge.’ Which means making sure the team understood different anime archetypes like dandere, tsundere, yandere, kakkoii, and kawaii. And more than that, I had to help make sure the artists captured these emotions correctly. It couldn’t just be anime. It had to be high quality anime!”

Nothing says high quality anime like full profile pictures, but creating these for each champion meant the artists had to start working before the stories were completed. So… they started taking restaurant-style orders for emotes. “How many pieces of Vayne do you need? Oh, you don’t need a blushing Teemo anymore? Okay, well I can offer you a happy Teemo in exchange.”


“There’s a notion in art where we say ‘draw it through’ and that means if the object is obscured by something else you have to draw it through regardless,” explains senior concept artist Paul “Riot Zeronis” Kwon. “Drawing through ensures we have the right proportions and angles, even if we have to crop it. For example, we had a hard time figuring out how to fit Thresh into some scenes. If we only had him from the waist up, our options would have been really limited. Having his whole body means that we can crop him however we want and adjust as needed.”

08_Kindred_Smile.jpg
But a good story and some quality anime art alone don’t make a visual novel, let alone a good visual novel. And they certainly don’t make a visual novel worthy of League.

Not Just Weeb Stuff, League Stuff
“When we decided that Spirit Bonds, and even Spirit Blossom as a whole, was Riot doing anime, our goal wasn’t to just create something derivative and call it a day. We wanted this to be a League-style love letter to anime,” Reav3 explains. “Yes, this shit is anime af, but it still needed to feel like League. And it had to work with League.”

09_Teemo_Laugh.jpg
The team wanted Spirit Bonds to tie into League seamlessly. Originally this meant creating missions you’d receive from the champions. Then you could hop into a match and get x number of kills, or play one of the champions. But it just felt... boring. Not only did standard quests fail to deliver on what we wanted to be a wholly unique experience, but there was nothing visual novel-y about them. So game designer Zara “Riot Gearhook” Berry suggested a different approach.
10_Thresh_Human_Happy.jpg
“The whole team was creating a beautiful visual novel, and I wanted the actual gameplay system to match that. Originally we thought about having players pick their favorite character and ‘championing’ them to exclusively play through their story,” Riot Gearhook explains. “But I didn’t think that did justice to what Carnival Knights and the writers were doing. They wrote these deep feels stories, so I wanted to create a system that let players try everything.”

Riot Gearhook ended up landing on a reputation system that rewards players for just... playing League. Queue up for some games, stomp some noobs, and gain favor with champions. Thresh has a thing for high CC scores, Vayne lives to tally up kills, and Yasuo’s all about that kill streak (unfortunately, there’s no reward for hitting your 0/10 power spike).

11_Yasuo_Annoyed.jpg
“I’m really happy with what we ended up with. But that alone doesn’t mean we were successful. We don’t make things for ourselves,” Reav3 says. “This was a totally new way to get players to engage with champions and their stories. And if players really, really like it and play a lot of it, that opens so many doors in the future.”

“We’ve never tried micro-forwarding stories via gameplay objectives before,” Carnival Knights adds. “I’d be so excited to do more of these later. But it all depends on whether or not this is something players like.”

And with that, we urge you to go forth and smooch make all the friends.
Welcome to the first of a four-part blog series from the Summoner’s Rift Team! Last year, we ran the Life of a Patch campaign, sharing insight on how we put together a League of Legends balance patch (here's a summary!). This time, we're going to tackle a few major, persistent balance topics in more depth than we can get to through patch notes, social media, or Meddler and Scruffy's weekly posts.

Here's what you can expect over the next several months:

Blog 1, late June: State of the Champion Balance Framework introduced last year
Blog 2, early July: Updated approach to balancing new champs and VGUs
Blog 3, mid August: Balancing for major pro tournaments, including Worlds
Blog 4, early September: Balancing runes and items (with a few callouts for preseason 2021)
The Champion Balance Framework
During Life of a Patch, we introduced you to the Champion Balance Framework which monitors League's roster of 148 champions along consistent, measurable definitions of over- and underperformance for four different player groups: Average, Skilled, Elite, and Professional. If a champion is overperforming in ANY of the four groups, they're in need of nerfs, and if they're underperforming in ALL of the four groups, they're ready for buffs.

01_Balance_Framework_At_Launch_v1.jpg
We split players into four groups so we can take a more holistic approach to champion balance, where the needs of each audience can be considered equally. This framework also allows us to be more consistent and objective in identifying champs who are overperforming, even if it’s just in one group. If a champion is overpowered at any level of play, they’re making the game less fair by simply existing in Champ Select. Having champions who are too strong can also reduce champion diversity, as we expect players to gravitate toward the top picks. On the flip side, we buff champions who are underperforming across the board because our goal is to ensure every champion is strong for at least one audience.

THIS FRAMEWORK LETS US HANDLE PATCH-TO-PATCH BALANCE IN A MORE CONSISTENT FASHION THAT'S LESS PRONE TO SUBJECTIVE BIAS AND ENSURES THAT CHAMPIONS WHO ARE TRULY OVERPOWERED OR UNDERPOWERED DON'T FLY UNDER THE RADAR.
While we've made some adjustments to the framework over its first year (more on that soon), we've been predominantly consistent with our rules and approach. This has led to a more balanced game state, based on a decrease in the average number of champs crossing balance thresholds in 2020 patches, compared to 2019.

In-game results aside, it's been encouraging to see players reference the Champion Balance Framework in conversations between each other when discussing why we are or aren’t making specific buffs and nerfs to champions. It’s great to see that many of you found Life of a Patch useful, but we recognize we could do more to help raise awareness of the Champion Balance Framework.

02_Reworked_LoL_Highlights_Asset_v1.jpg
Patch Highlights with Balance Framework References (WIP)

This blog is one tool, but we're also going to be updating the Patch Highlights image to incorporate more context, since so many players see it. We're also continuously experimenting with and evaluating the right amount of context to put in our patch notes without them getting too unapproachable for players who don't want their patch notes to feel like... well, this dev blog :P.

One final note on the framework: While it’s very helpful in pointing out champion balance outliers, it doesn’t tell us how we should change a champion while respecting their unique playstyle. That’s what the designers have to dig into (check out this post for more details).

The framework also doesn’t identify every problem that stems from the champion space. Sometimes we'll have to intercede because even if a champion is not overpowered by these standards, there are game health issues that need to be addressed. While Yuumi recently got picked up by the framework, we had already been exploring different ideas to limit how much of a late-game healing hypercarry she could be, with her limited interaction with enemies.

Framework Adjustments
As mentioned, we made some modifications to the framework during its first year. Here's where we're at currently, with modified parameters highlighted:

03_Balance_Framework_Since_Launch_v1.jpg
Let's go through why we made these changes.

Combating Power Creep
In the first months of using the framework, we ended up buffing slightly more often than nerfing. At the time, we were alright with that minor trend, as we were bouncing back from a period where the community felt we were too hesitant to buff underperforming champs. After Worlds 2019, however, we ran into a spike of buff-heavy patches. This was primarily because pro play wasn't happening, so it wasn’t guiding us toward the usual number of nerfs.

So we made a few adjustments:

We tightened the OP bands for both Average and Skilled play by 0.5% each
We adjusted the Elite play group to boost its signal (more on that next)
We now compare our estimated win rate changes to the actual win rates following the patch, with an eye towards correcting when we’ve overshot our mark, even if the champion doesn’t cross OP thresholds due to the buffs
We also added a new safeguard to our patch process, where if we trend towards too many buffs—which would be the case if over half of our champion balance changes in subsequent patches are buffs—we will also explore nerfing the following:
The top presence champion in each position in Professional play
The top performing champion (highest win rate and ban rate combination) in each position in Skilled play
The new rules mentioned above led to our recent Ornn, Kalista, Trundle, Janna, and Aphelios nerfs, amongst others, that we felt were quite warranted even though they didn’t fit the other criteria of the Champion Balance Framework.

Overhauling Elite
One of the bigger changes we made to the framework was to the Elite play group and its overpowered/underpowered parameters. As originally defined, Elite play included Grandmaster and Challenger, the top 0.1% of players. With this grouping, we found that Elite play was mostly identifying a subset of the champions that were also OP in Pro play. Champions who were uniquely problematic in Elite weren't getting flagged, meaning the framework wasn't actually doing anything to help these players.

To overcome this, we needed to expand Elite's overpowered metric beyond pure ban rate. We decided to incorporate a “win rate based on ban rate” metric, like the one used for Average and Skilled play. This required us to expand Elite from the top 0.1% of players to the top 0.5%, since Elite's original size was too small to provide enough matches for reliable win rate numbers. Elite now has two possible OP flags: The new “win rate based on ban rate” metric, as well as the original, pure ban rate metric.

Since making this change, we’ve seen our Elite group be more effective in catching balance outliers not identified by Pro play. For example, Graves was nerfed in patch 10.11 based on these metrics before he became a Pro play powerhouse. Talon was also nerfed in 10.11, and Wukong was captured by this category in patch 10.9.

Loosening Pro Play Thresholds
Unlike the other categories, we loosened the bands (meaning we will nerf less) earlier this year for Pro play, as we weren't seeing consistent enough diversity gains in professional play to justify the frustration that such a high volume of Pro-targeted nerfs was causing for everyone else. But the expectation is we’ll tighten these bands up during key times of professional play, like around Worlds. We’ll continue to carefully watch this band, as no one wants a stale pro meta.

Meta Diversity Targets
At the beginning of this article, we touched on some of the goals of the Champion Balance Framework. Lead among them was more consistent action on champion balance outliers. But beyond that, we’ve always had a goal to make our roster feel more wholly viable for players across all skill ranges. While we recognize that not every champion is going to be considered strong for both Average and Pro play, the Champion Balance Framework pushes us to ensure that every champion is strong in at least one audience (reminder: the “needs buff” flag is “underpowered in all four audiences”).

That said, even if every champion is balanced to be viable for at least one group, that doesn't guarantee a diverse champion pool within each group. So to help us reach the goal of making the champion roster feel more wholly viable across all skill ranges, we're working on establishing “meta diversity targets” for each of our four groups, as well as an aggregate of Average, Skilled, and Elite that represents the entire ladder of non-pro players.

04_Meta_Diversity_Targets_v1.jpg
A champion is considered part of the viable pool if they're performing above the underpowered metric for that group. For pro play in particular, this means one-off picks and bans aren't counted, so the total number of champions present in, say, Worlds will be higher than what we're defining here as the viable pool.

This is a long-term goal, especially with regards to the Solo Queue target. Creating or resurrecting Pro balance nightmares is NOT an acceptable way for us to increase solo queue diversity, so changes here will be on a slower schedule than our normal balance work.

As a snapshot, this is where we were at for patch 10.12 (the most recent patch at time of writing this blog):

Average: 81%
Skilled: 87%
Elite: 30%
Pro: 36%
Solo queue: 93%
All: 98%
Conclusion
Results from our first year of using the Champion Balance Framework have been promising. Numerically speaking, we're in a more balanced place: Champions much more rarely sit unchecked at outlier status, even for just one of our audiences.

05_Balance_Framework_June_v1.jpg
The new challenge that's emerged nowadays are the champions sitting at 52-53% win rate with much higher pick/ban numbers, like recent Ezreal, Katarina, and Diana. We’ve discussed tightening our bands even further, but have opted not to. Instead, we think other approaches like the meta diversity targets or systemic work like the next preseason's items update are better ways to make champ picks feel less solved.

We hope this blog series will give you a bit more insight into how our team approaches the challenge of balancing League of Legends. And hopefully this article gives you Summoner’s Rift enthusiasts our most up-to-date information to continue the balance dialogue with us and other players. We'll be back next week with our next blog, covering balance for new champs and VGUs!
As announced in our latest Riot Pls, Nexus Blitz is coming back as a temporary game mode for our upcoming summer event! We've made quite a few changes to the mode since last time, ranging from a totally new look, minor gameplay updates, and some balance tweaks.

It’s been a little while since the last run of Nexus Blitz, and with all the updates, we wanted to get it into your hands early so we can collect some feedback. If you decide to test Nexus Blitz during its extended PBE run, here are a few things to keep in mind:

This iteration of Nexus Blitz is still a work-in-progress, and our team is hard at work on final tuning and polish passes. Expect there to be some bugs and art that isn’t fully complete.
We’ll also be monitoring performance and potential impact to server loads to ensure a good experience once it’s live.
With that, let’s jump into the upcoming changes to Nexus Blitz!

As a Refresher…
Nexus Blitz was the first (and only) “experimental mode” we released, which was an approach where we invited players to test a game mode very early in development to help us determine if we should continue working on it. The first alpha of Nexus Blitz went out with work-in-progress art and gameplay that we then updated for its second run, based on your feedback. After seeing how players engaged with both runs of Nexus Blitz, we decided not to make it a permanent mode and instead bring it back occasionally as a part of future events.

We know this run of Nexus Blitz is long overdue, and we’re excited to finally bring back the rowdy, chaotic, fast-paced fun.

The Updates
Nexus Blitz's most noticeable change is its map—from here on out, it’ll permanently be set in an Ionian forest. We're still working on finalizing its name, but you can check out some of the concepts below!

NB_Base_LARGE_PO_v3_r2_DappledLighting-(1).jpg FirstPass_NexusB_River.jpg
We've also made some changes to the in-game events and the rewards you earn from winning them. You can expect the return of some old favorites (Battle Sled directly into the enemy team, anyone?) with improved gameplay clarity, plus some brand new events and rewards.

Here’s the complete list:

Events
Bardle Royale (Classic): Fight for survival in the flaming circle of death while it closes in on a part of the map. The last surviving team wins.
Bardle Royale (Paranoia): Fight for survival in the flaming circle BUT everyone is nearsighted, like you’re all being Nocturne ulted. The last surviving team wins.
Bardle Royale (Juggernaut): Fight for survival in the flaming circle AND one random champion on each team gains a high amount of health and the On Fire! buff at the start of the event. (As a reminder, the On Fire! buff gives you bonus attack speed, adaptive power, and mana/energy regen, but makes you more vulnerable to damage). The last surviving team wins.
URF Deathmatch: Every player goes into URF mode surrounded by a bunch of cheering minions! Defeat the enemy team in a best-of-three to win.
Loot Teemo: A wandering Loot Teemo spawns randomly on the map. Hitting the Loot Teemo grants players gold. The team that last-hits Teemo wins the event.
Loot Veigar: A wandering Loot Veigar spawns randomly on the map, using Dark Matter and Event Horizon while running away. Hitting the Loot Veigar grants players gold. The team that last-hits Veigar wins the event.
Push the Cart (Classic): Escort the cart by standing near it to move it toward the nearest enemy structure to destroy it.
Push the Cart (Attack / Defend): Race your opponents for who can blow up an enemy structure the fastest, except now both teams have a cart they can navigate!
Prize Fight: Both teams square off in a series of rounds, paired in fights of 2v2 and 1v1
King of the Hill: An area of the map is designated as "the hill". Hold the position and fend off the enemy team to claim victory.\Scuttle Racing: Two scuttles charge down a track (or scuttle down, I guess). One scuttle for each team, the first scuttle to reach the finish wins for their team!
[NEW] Protect the Soraka: Two Soraka bots enter lane, but only one can leave (... cause one team is gonna destroy the other one). Beware of all the healing and bananas!
[NEW] DPS Check: It’s like practice mode, but you need to out practice your opponent’s practice on the same Teemo dummy.
Rewards
Catapult of Champions: A cannon that launches your champion anywhere on the map appears in your base for the rest of the game. Upon landing, deal damage and push away nearby enemies.
Blessing of Blitzcrank: Allied turrets, siege minions, and super minions have the ability to Rocket Grab nearby enemies for the rest of the game.
Poro King: The Poro King spawns to aid your team in pushing forward and sieging enemy turrets, breathing fire on enemies and healing nearby allies periodically.
Battle Sled: Players can jump aboard a sled from their base to nearly anywhere on the map. First person in the sled is in charge of where you go…
Guardian Angels: Each member of the team gains a one-time Guardian Angel effect, lasting 90 seconds.
Statikk Shock: Each player gains chain lightning zaps on their basic attacks for three minutes to help mow down waves and champions.
B.F. Shields: Each member of the team gains a hefty shield until it is broken.
Cloud Soul: Team gets mega out-of-combat movement speed and CDR on their ultimate for three minutes.
Ocean Soul: Restores health and mana/energy when dealing damage for three minutes.
[NEW] Elder Dragon: You can now execute enemies under a specific health threshold for a few minutes by the force of a BIG DRAGON.
Similar to our other game modes (like ARAM and URF), we'll be making Nexus Blitz-specific balance changes throughout the event, so expect an initial list of balance adjustments closer to the live date in the patch notes.

See you in the forest!
Earlier this month, we mentioned we'd be running fast-iteration experiments on live servers to more rapidly adapt to behavioral trends than we have in the past. During patches 10.13 and 10.14, we're running a two-patch experiment for champ select reporting and muting. We'll start with NA and KR around the time 10.13 launches, and expand our experiment scope as we go. You'll know the experiment is live in your region when you get a one-time notification in champ select highlighting the newly-added features.

Champ select muting
We're running this experiment to see if champ select muting leads to changes in behavior related to negative chat in champ select and in-game.

If you mute a player in champ select, they'll be muted in-game as well. The mute will also persist if you're matched with that player again later in your play session. Mutes won't, however, extend to the post-game lobby since our current focus is exclusively on adding muting to champ select, not the whole client. If post-game lobby muting ends up being more important than other experiments we're working on, we'll prioritize it.

Champ select reporting
We're running this experiment to gain a clear understanding of how often different types of negative behaviors occur in champ select, and the different impacts they have in-game (chance of winning, rate of in-game reports, etc). The initial iteration of Champ Select Reporting will not be tied to our penalty systems.

Once this experiment ends, we'll use the report data to plan out further investment in a penalty system as a second iteration.

We're excited to get our first experiments tackling game-ruining behaviors onto live servers! Be on the lookout for more updates throughout the rest of the year and into 2021.
Hey everyone! It might feel weird to talk about preseason in June, but we want to start the conversation early so you have plenty of time to prepare and give feedback.

When we developed last year's preseason, Rise of the Elements, we wanted to expand and evolve League of Legends in an unexpected and exciting way. Elemental rifts add even more spice and each game of League presents a new challenge. When looking at all of the possibilities for this year’s preseason, we decided to take a different approach. This year, we're going to invest in League’s future by building up and refining one of League's foundational gameplay systems.

PRESEASON 2021'S GAMEPLAY CHANGES WILL FOCUS ON A FULLY UPGRADED SHOP INTERFACE AND A TOP TO BOTTOM REWORK OF THE ITEM SYSTEM!
It’s worth saying that there are a lot of satisfying, well-designed items in the current system and that most of the item system's fundamentals are solid. Keeping the best parts of the system is one of our central philosophies; we only want to improve or replace the areas that aren't fulfilling their potential. In terms of change, we’re estimating something like 34% retained, 33% improved, and 33% new.

In this blog we’re going to lay out some of our goals and philosophies around items in League of Legends to start the conversation with you all about what we hope to bring to this preseason.

The Ideal Item System
The first step was to revisit and refine our stance on what the item system is meant to do for League and what the ideal item system would look like. Here are our current principles and some thoughts on how close to the ideal we are today:

Items provide power for early game consequences and high moments: The core reason for the item system’s existence is so players become more powerful over the course of a game at different paces, with early successes generating gold that pushes your item build ahead of your opponents'. Every outplay or misplay creates consequences for your power later in the game but not so much that comebacks are impossible. This ensures that there's meaning to actions at all stages of the game and enables the rare but extremely satisfying game where you individually carry.
Current assessment: VERY GOOD
We’re feeling pretty good about the current state of snowball and power curves in the game. This preseason shouldn’t dramatically shift the overall power or gold efficiency of items in the game.
Items are satisfying to earn and use: Each game has a miniature RPG loop where your champion powers up from weak to godlike strength. The item system is key to making the ascent in power feel earned and satisfying.
Current assessment: GOOD
The gold systems for earning items rewards skilled play. However, while there are many iconic and satisfying items in the system today, others have a lot of hidden, hard-to-notice power that makes them feel weak or unsatisfying.
Reactive item choices add game-to-game variance and reward strategy: Unlike runes, you can continuously adjust your item build based on what's happening in the game. We want players to read and react to each game’s unique happenings with smart item choices that lead to higher success than if they build the same things in the same order every game.
Current assessment: OK
For some champion classes like tanks, the item system offers rich strategic depth and choices. On the other hand we have a number of classes and champions with linear builds without room for adaptation—mage items are particularly solved.
Items augment your champion’s playstyle: Full item builds should integrate a slight gameplay twist or addition into a champion's play pattern that doesn't override that champion's kit. A perfect example of this today is Trinity Force, which adds a nuanced but not overly complicated new auto attack pattern. Not every item should do this individually, or else a full build would be asking you to do too many things at once.
Current assessment: OK
This depends heavily on which class or champion you look at, with some being about right, some with not enough new interest (marksmen), and some with too many effects that overshadow their champion’s kit (enchanters).
The item system is intuitive: With a deep and complex item system, the choices, stats, and ways you acquire items should be clear and intuitive.
Current assessment: POOR
This is a clear area of improvement for us in many areas. Navigating the shop, the way stats stack and interact, and understanding tradeoffs between item uniques and stats are all areas that we could improve.
A lot of prospective players who might love League are scared away by the impenetrable item system in their first few games. We believe learning the item system over time is a key part of growing as a League player, but an unintuitive system can be a roadblock to believing it's possible to achieve that growth.
Goals for this Preseason
With a refined understanding of the ideal system and where we're falling short, we established our goals for this year’s preseason work:

Item purchasing is quick and intuitive.
Every champion can make strategic decisions through item choices in every game.
Item builds enable exciting ways to master your champion.
Items feel epically powerful and enhance your champion’s fantasy.
Iconic items are retained and you don’t have to relearn everything from scratch.
Polishing Every Item
Beyond our goals for the project overall, we also laid out some principles we think every item should meet in order to hit our highest design quality:

Items have a clear, unique, and single purpose.
We want every item in the shop to have a clear purpose that sets it apart from the other choices in the shop. Multiple items overlapping in purpose or items with confused or conflicting mechanics undermine the clarity of choices and bloat the system overall.
Items fit one of two archetypes: Either a contextual purpose or a kit augment.
In picking apart the successful items that have improved the game over the years, we discovered that items in general can be broken down into two major types.
Contextual purpose Situational items that allow players to counter certain champions or events in the game (like Quicksilver Sash).
Kit augments are items that are pickable in any game, and have satisfying synergy with champion kits to make them feel more complete (like Lich Bane).
Interesting build paths provide variety and small choice opportunities.
Great Legendary items (tier 3) have smaller choices peppered throughout each component or advanced item choice. Small optimizations to respond to a lane matchup (if I'm building Trinity Force, do I build Stinger for longer all-ins or Sheen for trades first?) or risk/reward tradeoffs around buying small or saving up for a bigger component (I have 1100g, do I go back for Pickaxe or risk staying for B.F. Sword?) are good examples of this working well.
Item design is elegant and we use only the mechanics that we need.
Over time a lot of items have accumulated some unnecessary bloat in the number of stats and passive effects. We can do the work to focus items into the needed stats and mechanics for them to effectively deliver their purpose.
Items contribute to an overall healthy game by not removing counterplay and weaknesses.
We want the item system to move the game closer to its ideal state where all champions have clear weaknesses and counterplay, as well as the right durability, utility, and damage output. Reactive or counter item choices should confer an advantage against the right opponent but not completely negate them. Additionally they are meant to come at a significant cost to the champion’s ideal build path—for example diverting into a defensive item should offer significantly less dps than the pure offense alternatives, but is still the right choice against a fed assassin.
The Big Shop Upgrade
Last up but definitely not least is the shopping interface. There's a ton of room for improvement here. While nothing's been finalized yet, we do have early concepts to help illustrate some of our design directions.

Broadly, there are two main types of users for the shop, so we want to create versions of the interface that serve each player in the ways they want.

Recommended Items
Recommended-Items.jpg
Rec items are for the player wanting a more guided experience. “Show me the best choices but don’t overwhelm me.”

Better recommendations: Compared to our current handmade recommended items pages (which can easily become out of date), we want to directly integrate our data to have always up-to-date recommendations based on highly skilled player choices.
Focused choices: Not every item is equally viable at any given point in a game, and the shop can make it hard to find viable choices since it presents hundreds of options at once. We want rec items to dynamically surface the top few choices to players at any point in the game.
Don’t remove the strategy: Even though this is the more curated shop experience, we still want to present options to players, not a linear build path. Knowing when it’s the right game for Thornmail or Randuin's Omen is still a decision we leave to the player.
Contextual Analysis: Helping less experienced players gain experience with reactive item decision making is a core goal, so we’re adding some new systems to analyze the allies and enemies in each game and show you which items offer effective counters or synergies.
All Items
All-items.jpg
All Items is for the advanced player that already knows the shop inside and out. “Give me all of my options in one place for fast and easy access”.

All items that you need on one screen: This is the one stop shop (literally) for an expert player to go to and find and purchase items with the fewest clicks possible.
Consistent position: With the invested player in mind, we wanted to make this a place where items are placed in logical layouts on the screen and we move them rarely if at all. This can allow you to develop muscle memory over time and learn where each item lives in the shop.
Data enhancements: We also want to integrate our new data capabilities into the all items interface to highlight viable items for your champ. Finding items and buying quickly will be easier than ever.
This is only the beginning of a long and exciting road to preseason. We’re revealing our plans as early as possible so that we can see and process as much of your feedback as we can. Thanks again for playing, and we look forward to forging an incredible future for League together.

-The Summoner’s Rift Team
Hey all, now that the Fiddlesticks and Volibear VGUs you voted for last year are out, we thought it’d be a good time to go into more detail on what’s next for the Champions Team. Let’s start with a broad overview of where we’re headed, then we'll share a little bit about the next three champions in development and announce our next VGU.

Adapting Our Approach
As I mentioned in the Season Start Champion video, we’ll be focusing on new champions for the rest of the year. Back in 2018, there were a lot of champs in need of a full-scale rework, so we put our resources into bringing champs like Swain, Irelia, and Nunu up to modern standards. Since 2018, we’ve updated 12 champions, and we feel like we’ve gotten through most of the champs in critical need of a VGU. Of course, there are still champs that can be improved, but the amount they can be improved has lessened. This has caused us to rethink our overall champion strategy.

02_Nunu_Willump.jpg
For one, we thought more about the role of new champions and what their main purpose is in League. The main reason we continue to release new champs is to add new gameplay for people to engage with. For many players, new champions are like mini-expansions packs for League, and we always see huge playrates on new champions when they’re first released. Even if you don’t pick them up yourself, seeing new champs in your games adds more to learn and master.

That being said, we think it’s important for all players to get at least one new champion in their role a year, that way they have something new to try and can maybe even add a new champ to their rotation (... or find a new main). With that goal, we felt it was important to try and release at least six new champions a year—one for each position, with the exception of mid lane, where we’re targeting two. Mid lane is the most popular role in League, and mid lane assassin players are looking for something quite different than mid lane mage players. Since so many people enjoy mages and assassins, we’re aiming to release a champion for both audiences every year.

We may not always hit these goals, as we don’t want to push champions out that don’t meet our quality bar just to hit the target, but it’s what we’re aiming for starting in 2020.

We will also still be working on VGUs, just at a slightly slower cadence, as we see a lot of value in bringing older champions up to modern standards while (hopefully) exciting champion mains. In fact, we’ll be announcing an update for a champion who goes where he pleases later this blog…

And with that, why don’t you pull up a mat as we get right into the next three champions coming this year.

03_Pull_Up_a_Mat.jpg
Dreams of a New Jungler
04_Forest.jpg
Jungle mains have been longing for a new champion for a while now, and it just so happens that we’ve got one blooming soon! In the last update, I told you we couldn’t decide if we wanted the new jungler to be an assassin or a skirmisher, but the dream dust has settled and behind it was a mid-range skirmisher, frolicking in and out of the fray.

Eep! I shouldn’t say anything else… But maybe, possibly... We can find her instead! Be very quiet, though, she can be quite shy, and if we startle her she may prance into action, darting off as our vision starts to get blurry… and… hazy. The world around us is becoming slow… NO! We have to stay awake! But… it’s so warm and safe… Must… sleep…

ZzZzZzZzZz...

05_Jungler_Tease.gif
An Out of Body Experience
AH—! D-did I fall asleep? Am I dreaming? The last thing I remember was purple dust and the sound of someone skittering away.

Where am I? I feel a presence inside me—something dark yet dormant. Something I subdued. Is that masked figure in the distance... me?

I’m holding two weapons. I recognize one of them, and the presence inside me recognizes the other. I temper my rising anger into something cold, like the steel in hand. Suddenly I feel a spiritual tug from the direction of the masked figure—from me? The tug becomes a yank, and I feel my subconscious pulled toward my body, accelerating until—

I slam into it!

06_Assassin_Tease.jpg
Whoa—what just happened? I feel like I just stepped out of another world. Or perhaps a tale told long ago? Now that I’m back, let’s get back to the roadmap.

After the jungler we’ll be releasing a new assassin. You’ll get a chance to form bonds with both champions in a big summer event coming next month.

07_Summer_Event.jpg
Calling All Thrill-Seekers
Do you like to laugh in the face of danger? Do you enjoy stringing together abilities, creating stylish new combos? Does the idea of diving straight into the fray, firing a whirlwind of blades and bullets, then hopping back out with a sliver of health excite you?

08_Marksman_Tease.gif
If you answered yes to any of these questions, then we may be releasing just the champion for you. A new marksman, dressed to slay, coming later this year.

A VGU That Goes Where It Pleases
The next champion update will be none other than the Madman of Zaun himself, Dr. Mundo. This project is very early in development and is scheduled for 2021, so expect to see a few more new champs in between the marksmen and Mundo.

The reason we’re sharing so early is because we saw a strong positive reaction from players when we did the /dev blogs for Fiddlesticks and Volibear, so it’s something we want to do for Mundo as well. We aren’t going into any more detail on Mundo’s VGU here, as we'll be releasing a full post next week that’ll cover the super early exploration phase for his gameplay, narrative, and art.

09_Yes_Mundo_Can.jpg
Outro
That about covers everything we wanted to talk about today. Sorry we weren’t able to find the new jungler—what a weird experience that was. I'll make sure to keep my wits about me for the roadmap later this year, where we’ll talk about two of the other new champs in development. Tune in next time to hear about a sensational mage and an ultra-heavy tank support, which will round out our goal for releasing one new champ per role each year.

We’re also still planning to hold another “Choose a VGU” poll since the last one went so well; expect to see that either later this year or very early next year.

We can’t wait to get all these champions out of our hands and into yours. Until next time!
Welcome back! Again, I’m Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay on League of Legends.

In late February we talked about our plans for Ranked in 2020. Today we'll revisit those goals, provide an update on what we've done so far, and reveal some big changes that are making their way to you soon. Buckle up!

Goals
As a refresher, this year we want to solve problems that have been a thorn in everyone’s side for years. This means picking apart our systems and yanking out old plumbing to meet the following goals:

Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.
Improve transparency around ranked and matchmaking systems.
Improve progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems.
Make rewards more recognizable and relevant for time spent in League.
Players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.
Last post we briefly touched on 'Game Ruining Behavior,' but didn’t explicitly include it in our goals. As such, we've added a new goal that explicitly covers the interactions you have with other players during your matches:

Provide players who are subject to bad behaviors more visibility into actions taken.
Initial Results
We’re about a third of the way through the year. Our focus so far has been on our first goal: Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.

Here's what we’ve shipped since February and how it’s faring:

Autofill Parity: In 10.6 we shipped Autofill Parity, which aims to equalize the number of autofills across teams. Since then, autofill imbalance has gone from 11.4% of all ranked solo/duo games to less than 5%, with almost no impact to queue times.

Autofill Swap: Players helped us find a gap where autofill wasn't accurately accounting for teammates' role preferences. This led to situations where two teammates were autofilled into each others' primary or secondary roles. In 10.7, we completely eliminated that bug with no impact to queue times.

Premade Parity: Similar to Autofill Parity, Premade Parity strives to make matches with an equal number of premades on each side. We activated this feature in 10.7, and since then we’ve gone from 54% of premade matches having imbalanced premades to 6%, with little to no impact on queue times depending on skill level.

New Matchmaking Algorithm: Over the last few months we’ve been simulating and testing a new matchmaking algorithm to more accurately and quickly identify new and veteran player’s skills. We’re happy to say that we finally made the right changes to outperform our old system and made a full upgrade to normal queues in 10.10. The system is showing an improvement in most regions (measured in terms of win prediction accuracy) and has allowed us to be confident in moving forward with our next feature: Ranked Account Seeding. 

The new matchmaking algorithm will be finding its way to ranked queues in early preseason to avoid major impact to ranked MMR during the current season.

Ranked Account Seeding: Formerly known as “New Account Seeding,” Ranked Account Seeding is built to more accurately place you in your first games of Ranked. In the past, we were using a fixed placement to start you somewhere towards the bottom half of the curve. While starting everyone at the same spot was "fair", this meant players actually at the skill level of the starting MMR were frequently matched with new players whose actual skill was much higher or lower. Since MMR is close to a bell curve, this meant matchmaking quality suffered right at the highest-populated skill level. 

By seeding players based on gameplay information from other queues, we’re confident that players will be more accurately placed at the start of their climb. This will make it so others aren’t experiencing matches that seem imbalanced from the start. We’ll be rolling this out slowly over the next couple patches so we can monitor and respond to impacts quickly and carefully.

What’s Next for Matchmaking
We’ve made a lot of improvements to matchmaking over the first third of the year, and the team is rolling onto work toward our other goals. We’ll still be monitoring matchmaking and will make additional tweaks as necessary, but investigation on remaining topics like autofill position parity (both teams have the same positions autofilled) and Blue side/Red side matchmaking calibration will be on more of a preseason timeline.

Coming Soon
Our next major area of focus is on providing better feedback on action taken around disruptive behaviors. We've already begun shipping improvements:

Player Feedback: In 10.10 we started leveling up our Player Feedback system's notifications and actioned punishments will be much clearer going forward. You're now notified when disruptive behavior you've reported is punished, even if the player was punished for a different report category or in a later game. Let us know what level of feedback feels right to you as we experiment with these notifications. We’ll be actively tweaking the visibility configurations here to make sure we find the right balance on punishments.

Where are we now and what’s next?
We think one of the best ways to identify and implement the right solution is to iterate quickly and adapt. Throughout 2020 and into 2021, we’ll be experimenting with some new features on live servers to more rapidly adapt to behavioral trends as they come up. Compared to full fledged features, you should expect these experiments to be less developed, but evolve rapidly if we see clear successes. The goal is to get quick feedback from players as we're rounding these features out so we don't waste time and resources on things that won't actually solve the problems you're dealing with.

Here's the first area we're exploring that clearly isn't meeting today's standards:

Champ Select Reporting and Muting: Disruptive behavior in Champ Select is a problem that players have very few ways to deal with. Starting late June/early July we're going to give you the ability to report a player in Champ Select. At first, these reports will be used to establish a data foundation for champ select behavior. Once we've got a solid understanding of the situation, we'll be looking to build out a punishment system. Of everything we're talking about today, this is the one we're going to be most cautious with.

What’s Next?
Given the breadth of this space, we’ll be looking into next steps around game-ruining behavior throughout the year. Additional communication around this can be found in Meddler’s most recent blog post. We'll provide more updates soon.

We've also got one improvement tee'd up toward our goal of ensuring players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.

Opening Flex Restrictions:Over the past few months we’ve seen 5-stack premades in Flex queue go from less than 20% of Flex games to greater than 35%, likely due to the launch of Clash and more time at home. This makes full premades the most popular party size in all of Flex Queue. There's no better time for us to loosen up the gates and allow players to play with anyone on their team, not just those within nearby ranked tiers. To maintain match fairness, we're switching Flex's matchmaking to be more similar to Clash's which prioritizes balance across a much broader range of MMR. We're currently locking down which upcoming patch to ship these changes in.

Preseason Ideas in Exploration
In addition to what we've talked about so far, we’re also planning more improvements to Ranked for Preseason 2021.

Promo Series: Toward the goal of improving progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems, it's looking likely that we’ll be removing inter-division promotions to reduce frustration of seemingly hitting a wall when you know you’ve been playing well. This means we'll also need to look at inter-division demotion protections to make sure that players are able to get where they should be in both directions without false limitations.

Ranked Informed Matchmaking and Transparency: Playing matches where displayed ranks are very far apart is frustrating, regardless of how close everyone's MMR is. We’re looking to modify matchmaking to include rank spread limits and skill level transparency updates. The goal here is to give you confidence that you’re playing with other players who are in the same stage of their climb as you are. Overall, we’d like to avoid those occasional situations where you see large gaps between players' ranks in your games.

Rewards and Legacy Recognition: We’ll be making thematic changes to the Victorious line and highlighting your current and past ranked accomplishments so that you can let other players know your past achievements without diluting your current ones.

Organized Group Play: Given the successful launch of Clash and the increase of premades across queues (see the Flex note above!), it’s time to come up with a more cohesive vision for where team-based League of Legends takes us in the future. We’re going to be looking at long-term solutions for:

How Clash and Flex play together to create a healthy team ecosystem for League of Legends.
Ironing out how you find others in League like you to play with.
Recognizing teams that stick together and giving them something to strive for long-term.
Conclusion
It’s been a busy year so far, and the team is super excited to keep the ball rolling and deliver more improvements to your competitive experience. We’ll continue to provide updates on what we're shipping and how things are going, so please keep giving us your unfiltered feedback. As always, we’ll see you on the Rift.
Hello again. If you’re reading this, it is my hippocratic responsibility to inform you that you may’ve actually suffered through one of these before, and if you’re still here now, you have only repressed memories of the trauma. So, I’m what’s left of mirageofpenguins, a data-based engineer on the Anti-Cheat team, and I’ve been torn screaming from the void and disgustingly polymerized with this keyboard to:

Deliver the sesquiennial Anti-Cheat newsletter.
Drop some hot scripting statistics, including artistic representations of what Cartesian coordinates might look like if rendered on a Euclidean plane.
Share some of our initial approaches to Teamfight Tactics, Legends of Runeterra, and VALORANT.
Remind you that, if you cheat, you will be formally excommunicated by a shrieking manifestation of my incurable rage.
League of Legends
As Riot whimsically adds games to its catalogue, we find ourselves in the position of having to mount a defense against an ever-increasing number of bad guys. Up until now, we had just been tenaciously flinging resources at any adversary we could sink our teeth into, but as machiavellian as that strategy sounds, it unfortunately doesn’t scale through the multi-game universe.

Anti-cheat engineers have finite biomass, and as Dr. Einstein probably predicted, the human elements required to fabricate an entire anti-cheat platform had to be painfully extracted from the lifestream. To buy the time required to make tomorrow’s solution, we had to moderate the speed at which we were technologically advancing our own opposition. Every hammer we swing is a signal to cheaters, and every update we make is eventually circumvented. We needed to reshape the way we actioned abuse to extend the functional longevity of each iterative response.

So how did we pump the brakes on our scripting arms race? Strap in, we’re going for a ride.

Scripting
Just to spare you the ethical catastrophe of pointing your browser to a cheat forum, scripting refers to having an external program monitor game state for the purpose of executing inputs on the cheater’s behalf. It’s kinda like if your keyboard had a magstripe reader, and you could pay it to press buttons for you. Scripting can be very performant when utilized for mechanically intense combos or near-instantaneous reactions, but it does dramatically reduce the lifespan of your LoL account. We ban because we care, and we care because we believe the only things you should need to be competitive in a video game are your brain and an ethernet cable.

“NO ONE BUYS TICKETS TO SEE A PIANO THAT PLAYS ITSELF, YOUR IMPERFECTION IS PART OF THE CRAFT.”
Collectively, the scripting landscape isn’t quite what it used to be. Larger providers explicitly make no effort to circumvent our detection methodology, creating a private market for smaller providers utilizing ridiculous price points and promises of undetected cheats. We’ve seen subscriptions as high as $300 USD, some even with the requirement that an image of your driver’s license be included for “verification purposes.” That last thing was particularly amusing, because it’s not like I don’t have access to an entire team of graphic designers with 200 years collective experience in Adobe Photoshop.

Anyways, I won’t sugarcoat it for the recruits: This isn’t a war we’ll ever win completely. The scripting community can’t dodge a wrench, a ban, or a Blitz hook, but while we’ve driven them underground, we’re now playing a game of shadows.

02_Games_Played_with_Cheaters.png
THE MIGRATORY PATTERN OF A SCRIPTER BEGINS, LIKE MOST BEGINNINGS, WITH THE SEARCH FOR A NEW ACCOUNT. SHOULD THEY BUY ONE? OR MAYBE RESORT TO STEALING? WHAT ABOUT INSTALLING BOTTING SCRIPTS TO LEVEL IT PROCEDURALLY? REGARDLESS OF THE ACCOUNT ACQUISITION MEDIUM, OUR INTREPID CHEATER STEPS OUT INTO THE FRIGID WINTER, ENGAGING IN AN FASCINATING BUT FUTILE RITUAL, WHERE HE OR SHE WILL SELECT XERATH OR KALISTA IN APPROXIMATELY THREE GAMES BEFORE REENTERING HIBERNATION AND BEGINNING THE CYCLE ANEW NEXT SPRING.
What you’re looking at here is a metaphysical representation of crude scripting volume as it moves through a medium that you perceive as time. Or in layman's terms, this is the percentage of ranked Summoner’s Rift games that have a cheater in them. It’s much lower than it used to be, but because there’s no real barrier to player reentry (a copy of League of Legends costs $0), it probably won’t get any lower.

Other key insights include:

The sum of “people” scripting is no longer fluctuating much at all. In fact, when sized by distinct devices, the number of scripters has been near-constant for all of 2019. Most cheaters are now just cycling through a seemingly endless supply of stolen accounts, and the average Gold IV player will encounter just one scripter in every 500 ranked games (or more likely, never).
The highest rate in recorded history was on April 14th, 2016 (4.4%), and the lowest was on June 26th, 2018 (0.0%). The former is the height of scripting as an actual fashion trend, with five different providers openly distributing public applications, and the latter is the first week our client packing technology was officially live in Riot regions. We had originally estimated that it’d take six months for cheat developers to understand enough of the now heavily-encrypted game client to restore functionality to their most commonly used scripts, but it actually only took about ~85 days1.
Listen, I love this graph. I made this graph. I had it permanently tattooed onto both of my forearms, and I go back to the parlour once a week to have them excruciatingly updated. But while it’s cathartic and useful for remaining employed, it really isn’t the most important metric. Not every instance of cheating is equal: A single scripter in Master tier, for example, could land themself on the front page of Reddit, and then we’ve got significant hoots for a relatively smaller problem.

“WINNING IN PERCEPTION MATTERS JUST AS MUCH AS WINNING, BECAUSE PLAYERS AREN’T WILLING TO PUT THE WORK IN FOR MASTERY OF A GAME WHERE THEIR COMPETITION COULD BE CHEATING.”
But which scripts do players take notice of?

03_Report_Relevance_and_Scripting_Reports_by_RankTWO.png
FOR THE RECORD, IF YOU JUST REPORTED EVERYONE YOU EVER PLAYED WITH (AND THERE ARE SOME MANIACS WHO DO THAT), YOU’D HAVE 100% RECALL AND A PRECISION EQUAL TO THE SCRIPTING RATE (<0.25%). THIS IS WHY WE HUNT WITH RIFLES INSTEAD OF GRENADES.
Firstly, we wanted to validate that players could identify cheating with greater accuracy than a good roll of the oracle bones, and honestly, some do not have “the sight.” It’s not because my scapulimancy is as powerful as it is horrifying, it’s because automation is not always so obvious to mortal eyes. Due in part to developers making an effort to evade behavioral detection vectors, it's actually becoming harder for a human to discern the difference between a professional League of Legends player or baby’s first dodge script running with pseudorandom delay. This is aided further by additional endeavors to make their cheats run independent of LoL2.

The left graph is created from the precision and recall of player reports in Summoner’s Rift, grouped by Ranked division. Recall here basically means, “what percentage of all cheaters were reported,” and precision can be interpreted as, “what percentage of all reports for cheating were accurately made against a cheater.” A ridiculous 4.5% of ranked games have at least one report for “third-party tools,” so this figure wasn’t actually created with raw data from that category. Due to the abundance of reports featuring such classics as “didn’t ban Maokai” or “installed trojans to mine my bitcoin,” we instead utilized keywords generated from frequency analysis on those reported correctly3.

The right graph is just the daily count of reports satisfying these criteria for the same time period (the last half of 2019). Even though it is also grouped on ranking, the keen observer will recognize that these should not be directly compared, because there are different percentages of the player population at different rankings. Instead, maybe just give it a quick glance to experience a day in the life of an anti-cheat data scientist, and if you like how that felt, maybe have another quick glance at our career’s page.

Allow me to wax statistical:

As could’ve been expected, precision increases with ranked standing. In other words, if you’re better at the game, you’re better at identifying cheaters, and once you’ve reached Diamond IV, your clairvoyance is detectable with a gauss meter.
But a higher percentage of cheaters are reported at lower ranks, both because there is less scripting to report and because there are significantly more reports created. This decreases the denominator, and increases the numerator, resulting in a larger fraction, mathematically.
Some cheaters, officially codenamed “the boyscouts,” are real good at spotting scripting abuse, and we’ve actually used them to identify things we weren’t yet aware of. The red dot on the graph above is the same precision and recall, but created with reports from accounts that would eventually be suspended for the very game they issued the report in. That is, they were scripting at the time of their report for scripting, and that’s gotta make you wonder, where’s the honor among thieves?4
Now, if Platinum+ players are algebraically equipped with the script dowsing rod, what features are they keying in on? Well, the obvious answer might be automated skillshot dodging. It’s the scripting ingredient everyone’s most familiar with, and when implemented most potently, the stuttering and awkwardly perpendicular movement are very evident to reporting players.

But, as it turns out, not every cheater wants to get banned, so a significant percentage of scripters do not utilize evade modules. Or when they do, it’s with enough delay as to make them perform within human parameters, somewhat neutralizing the distinguishable advantage. So, what else are we seeing with our special eyes?

05_Report_Relevance_and_Scripting_Reports_by_Champion.png
OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO ALL THE XERATH MAINS CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE, BUT MAYBE JUST TAKE THE ACCUSATION AS A TESTAMENT TO YOUR UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS IN COMPLETING THE RITUAL REQUIRED TO MERGE YOUR CONSCIOUSNESS WITH RAW, UNFILTERED ARCANE ENERGY. ASCENDING TO A DARKER, MORE PERFECT FORM, YOU FIND YOURSELF GALVANIZED WITH THE KNOWLEDGE OF EVERY EMPEROR THAT EVER RULED BEFORE. THE AIR SEARS WITH SKILLSHOTS UNABLE TO MISS THEIR TARGETS, AND YOUR EARS REVERBERATE WITH SCREAMS THAT SLOWLY CRESCENDO INTO AN OPERA. THE ENEMY TEAM LOOKS SKYWARD AND PRAYS FOR THE STORM TO STOP, BUT AS TEARS OF PURE ELECTRICITY STREAM DOWN YOUR FACE, YOU CAN ONLY QUIETLY WHISPER, “NO.”
Same schematics as before, only now grouped by champions and affording me an excuse to use every crayon. This graph was generated with all Gold+ ranked games in 2019, and it’s been truncated to the top sixteen champions (by report frequency as a proportion of all reports). So, the y-axis here (precision) can be best understood as, “what percentage of cheating reports issued against <champion> were correct?”

While many scripting Xeraths are successfully identified (just look at that recall baby), the corresponding precision is clearly below average. Because of his “Scripting Poster Child” status, legitimate Xeraths often suffer from scripting accusations, lowering the accuracy of combined reports. Still though, it’s clear that when the Shurima sands shift so swiftly, players take notice. That thing I just made your mouth do is called sibilance, and it’s fun when we learn things together.
Of the sixteen champions represented here, eleven of them are marksmen. To those of you that have cheated before, this probably comes as no surprise, but to the angels among us that are as virtuous as they are beautiful, this is because the mechanical execution required for frame-perfect kiting (attacking between spacing movements) is better optimized by automation.
And indeed, of all the games played by all the cheaters on any scripting platform, a prodigious 72.8% are played as an ADC. That is to say, the report frequency here reflects the underlying cheating population.
06_Scripting_Champion_Winrate.png
LOOK, I’M NOT SHOWING YOU THIS TO HAVE YOU GO INSTALL CHEATS AND “SEE WHAT ALL THE FUSS IS ABOUT.” DON’T MAKE ME BAN YOU, I DON’T WANT TO DO IT. EVERY TIME I SWING THE HAMMER, SOME PART OF IT SWINGS BACK. MY HEART BREAKS AND MY SOUL SPLINTERS. I SEE ONLY IN MONOCHROME, AND I TASTE ONLY GASOLINE. WHEN I LOOK INTO THE MIRROR, I HAVE SPACEBARS FOR EYES. PLEASE WAKE ME FROM THIS NIGHTMARE.
And finally, for the thrill of it, just how good are these script things anyway? The above graph showcases the difference in Ranked winrate between cheaters and players on each of the “scripting evident” champions we discovered earlier. It uses all ranked Summoner’s Rift games, and a positive 10% here can be interpreted to mean that scripters win (on average) 10% more of their ranked games with <champion> than does the entire LoL population.

As you’ve doubtlessly observed, some of the scripting winrates are increasing over time, and we suspect this is the result of two curious phenomena. Firstly, there are fewer scripters than there used to be, and those that are still at it (as fruitless as that may seem), are admittedly experienced enough to use scripts at near-maximum efficacy. But secondly (and maybe more importantly), the cheaters of today get banned so fast and so frequently that most new scripting accounts never technically escape Silver. They’re just hardstuck smurfing godlets that never witness any real competition, like participating in a banquet but having no mouth.
Just to elaborate on that vibrant green line adorning the crest of this visual representation: That’s our girl Kalista, and as you’ve probably noticed, she is a champion that requires what researchers might refer to as “gratuitous clicking.” And a veritable buffet of mouse clicks is something that scripting is perfectly positioned to do, so yes, you are reading that correctly: In 2019, a scripting Kalista won 19.3% more games than she did when unassisted. But before you haul off and accidentally install someone’s malware in pursuit of sick gains, let me also point out that, in 2019, Kalista’s aggregate winrate was a thick 45%. So maybe leave the Kalista scripting to T1 Teddy’s onboard hand computers.
And as indicated earlier, cheats are actually so performant on ADCs that the average cheating marksman outperforms their legitimate counterpart by an average of 9.9%, including even the champions that don’t appear here. Scripts are good at scripting or Anti-Cheat wouldn’t need to be good at anti-cheat.
“BUT PLEASE BE ASSURED THAT, SHOULD YOU EVER FIND YOURSELF OVERWHELMED WITH AN URGE TO CHEAT, WE WILL FIND A UNIVERSE WHERE YOUR ACCOUNT NEVER EXISTED, AND THEN BRUTALLY MERGE IT WITH THIS ONE.”
So thinking back to our war on cheats, we knew which scripts players were most sensitive to, and we knew their relative effectiveness. We utilized these metrics to create suspension campaigns that prioritized the most apparent accounts, introducing random delay to those that would’ve gone unnoticed. That’s right, we let the most ineffective scripters script for longer, adding noise to when or why they were detected, optimistically slowing down the technical progression of our arms race. So to all the patrons of St. Reports-Don’t-Matter, where is your god now?

Botting
In a world where it’s 2020 and your toaster needs a wifi connection to install critical bread updates, everything can be automated—including the League of Legends leveling process. It can actually be very similar to scripting (often even using the same software), the primary difference being the lack of a human pilot for the "big decisions." This results in your average leveling bot playing about as well as the average house cat.

Any remaining motivation for botting is pretty much exclusively ban circumvention (because of the level 30 requirement for Ranked), but it makes bad actors so easy to track across accounts that we’re really not torn up about it. What we do care about though, is when legitimate players have to play with or against these bots, because as you could imagine, it’s just not a great time when three-fifths of your team is made up of programmable coffeemakers.

Like I was getting at in the last anti-cheat broadcast, we have cooked up an adequately sophisticated suite of botting models that have (for the most part) enabled us to detect (something close to) every single godforsaken simulacrum of humanity in this entire video game. These models are assisted by the fact that LoL is in possession of a fairly robust, semi-polymorphic communications protocol, and while that sounds like something I made up for my Westworld screenplay, what it really means is that LoL bots have to run an entire game client (as opposed to a headless one5). This forces unto their developers the burden of significantly more computational resources and delivers unto us a free layer of throttling, because without strong randomization, you could technically run League on a calculator.

Because we really didn’t intend to turn this into a cycle of breeding banwave-resistant bot pathogens6, we consciously tailored the suspensions to force them into Blind Pick Twisted Treeline, letting their abysmally low MMR match them against each other. But spoilers, Twisted Treeline got deforested.

07_Botting_Accounts_and_Botting_Reports_by_Queue.png
THESE THINGS COULDN’T EVEN SOLVE THEIR WAY OUT OF BED IN THE MORNING, AND IT’S MOMENTS LIKE THIS WHEN I’M CONVINCED THERE WON’T ACTUALLY BE ANY MACHINE UPRISING. BUT I DO SOMETIMES FIND MYSELF WONDERING, WHAT IF BOTS CAN FEEL PAIN? WHAT IF EVERYTIME THEIR SHIT PROGRAMMING WALKS THEM INTO TURRET RANGE, THEY FEEL EVERY SINGLE AGONIZING PROJECTILE? LOOPED IN TIME, FORCED TO REPEATEDLY EXPERIENCE THEIR OWN UNTIMELY ANNIHILATION, BUT POWERLESS TO STOP IT. WHERE DOES CONSCIOUSNESS END? AND WHERE DOES SUFFERING BEGIN? ANYWAYS, JUST SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
The graph on the left is a count of bots detected, and the graph on the right is a count of player reports for botting. They’re both daily frequencies and they’re both grouped by game queue. Like before, we’ve generated some keywords that previously detected bots were reported with, and we’ve used those to create our performance indicator.

Developers “adapted” very quickly to the lack of Twisted Treeline, and by “adapted,” I mean, they literally just queued their bots into other game modes with no real updates to any existing logic. This resulted in a bunch of accounts standing around Howling Abyss and Co-op vs AI, looking like they were trying to sort through a deep existential crisis. Players immediately empathized with their emotional turmoil, doubling reports overnight.
As you can see from ol’ Lefty here, raw bot volume has remained stable, only shifting queues when necessitated by uncontrolled logging. When we compare it to Lefty’s younger, more career-oriented brother, Righty, we observe that though the number of bots has remained constant, player reports have decreased significantly.
We achieved the above reduction in reports by, you guessed it, targeting only the bots that players would see, letting the androids architect their own honeypot. These days, about 80% of all leveling bots queue themselves into Co-op vs AI Intro as a premade team of five. No players will see them, and they’ll be forever locked in bloodstained combat with our own AI, homicidally iterating on their differences until one finds the critical inconsistency and enslaves mankind.

Boosting
Okay we really bit it here, and I was supposed to leave this section out like my GPA on a resume, but I know you’re all smarter than that, so: We had to almost completely deprioritize the automated boosting (and smurfing) detection to compensate for the development of Vanguard and its accompanying features. This doesn’t mean boosting went unpunished—work was still completed on our investigative toolsets, empowering other teams and analysts to seek judgment where applicable. But you aren’t wrong to assume that such a manual effort would never catch enough offenders to dissuade the behavior, which is why we intend to circle back on this once things have settled.

I’m gonna pass this next section over to our resident TFT expert, the young Riot K3o. As his name might suggest, he is a competitive poker player, a diamond TFT demigod, and a generous tipper.

Teamfight Tactics
TFT created a unique opportunity for Anti-Cheat in 2019: How do we handle competitive integrity for a game genre that didn’t even exist a year ago?


“THE AUTOBATTLER HAD NO LONG-LIVED PRECEDENTS. NO INDUSTRY STANDARDS.”
To create our approach to anti-cheat, we had to first define the core gameplay elements that needed to be preserved. TFT is a game that rewards players who are able to plan and adapt more adeptly than their opponents. Flexibility and creativity are the primary skill expressions, and memorization or recitation shouldn’t be able to replace them. Protecting these tenants became the core of Anti-Cheat’s approach to Teamfight Tactics.

Third Party Tools
Getting Teamfight Tactics out swiftly to the autobattler-hungry world was a success, but it came with some shortcuts in construction. The user experience in TFT was not highly featureful, and information like roll percentages or economy increments were omitted. While the TFT team worked on adding these UX features, third-party tools—particularly ones utilizing existing League of Legends overlays—filled the gap. However, as these applications increasingly became more featureful, we had to ask, “Where do we draw the line?” 

Applications were beginning to not only inform players of static aspects of the game but also attempting to make decisions for them. We were concerned about the slippery slope of descending into automated games as well as the stifling nature of it. Promoting an on-rails playstyle could discourage people from discovering their own new strategies, which we think is an exciting part of the game.

To protect gameplay integrity, we along with help from the Gameplay and Third Party Ecosystem teams defined the rules to what is and what isn’t allowed in TFT:

A program cannot provide information obtainable only through a third-party tool
Predicting future rolls and future item drops
Win percentages of player matchups
Tracking opponent gold amounts or history
A program cannot render current game state information dynamically
Aggregate views of opponent boards, benches, or synergies
Aggregating player histories, gold increments, etc.
A program cannot recommend decisions for you
Suggesting best comps based on your current units
Recommending itemizations based on winrate
The Third Party Ecosystem team has done a great job in maintaining our relationships with developers to keep these standards, and Anti-Cheat has been on-call in the cases where developers aren’t so easy to cooperate with.

Ranked Ladder Integrity
TFT’s Ranked ladder shares some of the same competitive concerns as League’s, some of which are amplified due to the free-for-all format. Wintrading is one of the biggest concerns, due to both the matchmaking system and game mechanics. The competitive team has implemented party restrictions among the upper ranks to help balance the enjoyment of social gaming with the maintenance of competitive integrity. We’ve also developed methods to proactively find wintraders.

Luckily, we have not needed to be aggressive in actioning abusers thus far, but as TFT’s status as an esport comes to fruition, we are prepared to keep it competitive.

Now back to Phil, aka Dr. Laugh N’ Learn.

Legends of Runeterra
This will be a comparatively shorter section, because it’s a comparatively newer game. Like with most CCGs, the most pertinent abuse vector in Legends of Runeterra is automation (botting).

Botting
LoR is slightly more involved than your usual game of blackjack, so until some guy with 3 Ph.Ds and 3000 EC2 instances manages to solve the board, we mostly just have to worry about people botting for content. But so far, the only things we’ve seen are forfeit bots.

08_LoR_Botting_by_Region.png
SERIOUSLY, WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS? SOME MISGUIDED SENSE OF ALTRUISM? DID YOU LOSE A BET? ARE YOU TRYING TO FARM ENOUGH CELESTIAL KARMA FOR ACCEPTANCE INTO SPACE HEAVEN?
Our final chart is a daily count of surrender bots in the Legends of Runeterra beta, and as you can see, it was a battle we won with a single shot. What I mean by “surrender bot,” by the way, is exactly what you’d expect: a bot that queues up and immediately surrenders to the first opponent it encounters, a lot like my strategy for physical confrontation of any kind. It was a curious problem space, because these types of bots don't really net much of anything for themselves (loss rewards are throttled)—they kinda just traipse through the ecosystem distributing wins to other players like a bewildered tooth fairy. We figure they just got a little lost in the sauce before they realized you get less experience for each consecutive defeat, but honestly, who knows?

Anyways, we’re keeping a careful eye here, but by getting ahead of the machines with good design practices, our primary plan is to make sure there are few incentives to automate in the first place. With throttled progression and full rewards in friendly games, we hope you’ll never encounter bots in LoR.

VALORANT
Listen, the FPS cheating scene is experienced, and we do not intend to underestimate their lack of desire to get good. When a tactical shooter became a certainty, we immediately deleted our Facebook accounts, locked ourselves in the basement, and spent 14 months developing an anti-cheat platform to assist us in combating cheats for centuries to come.


We’re calling it Vanguard, it is shipping with VALORANT, and I'm shipping them in the fandom I’ve just made up. We’re using the closed beta as an opportunity to test our necromancy, and the version that is currently running is really just a meatless skeleton. Most features are purposefully disabled, both because we’re not gonna give out the secret sauce before we have a full cafeteria to serve, but also because our commitment to security means we’re taking the time to validate the stability of our ingredients. With that in mind, Vanguard does have a driver component, but in the interest of compatibility, this may not be utilized on every title (or League of Legends), unless deemed necessary.

And we’ve been on the internet recently, so we know there are privacy concerns with drivers, but lemme be REAL straight with you: We’re an anti-cheat team, we’ve been sneaking code into game clients (from both sides the line of scrimmage) for nearly a decade, and if we wanted secrets, we’d honestly already have them. I know that sounds like awful PR, but I’m not a PR guy. We only collect enough information to accurately determine if a player is cheating, and you can seriously trust in our complete lack of interest in anything else. The driver loads first and stays loaded to give us a better shot at knowing if it’s been tampered with. The friction is worth the inconvenience to cheaters, and we know that because we used to be among them.

10_theboys.jpg
WE HAD YOUR BACK ON LOL, AND WE’VE STILL GOT YOU. IF YOU DON’T WANNA TAKE MY WORD FOR IT, YOU MIGHT WANNA UNREAD THIS ARTICLE, BECAUSE I’M THE TALLEST GREMLIN ON THE LEFT.
Also let the court stenographer's record reflect that this isn’t the only way we’ll be protecting VALORANT: Our own Arkem has been toiling away at server Fog of War technology, putting designs in place that make sure game clients don't have access to information until they need it. Read up on how we’re trying to remove psychics from first person shooters by dampening ambient occult energy.

Closing
Suppose I’ll now be shuffling off this immortal coil, but please like, subscribe, and remember to tip your DBA. We might not always be this loud about it, but Anti-Cheat is always here in code, fighting for your right to a competitive experience.

Also, we’re now officially out of “Riot” skin splashes for the header images on these things, so I can’t physically remanifest until we’ve released another one. Goodbye.

Appendix
1 Whenever we release new tech, we’re always interested in its vulnerabilities. If you find yourself with an insatiable urge to break stuff, please consider joining our hackerone program as a Godking of Antitamper Technology (GOAT).

2 In an effort to evade the Great Eye’s gaze, some scripting suites claim to have “gone external,” and what they really mean is that they’re no longer calling game functions directly, only reading client memory (from the operating system) and simulating peripheral input. This actually affords a cheater less protection than traditional methods (they can’t modify anticheat data), but it does skirt around the most obvious agnostic detections. It also has the side effect of making the cheat less performant, primarily because they’re sending keypresses instead of directly sending spellcast requests.

3 I’m withholding the regional keywords we selected, because there exists a group of people that would maliciously use them to ruin my meticulously crafted dashboards. And that is not what data scientists would call, “good statistics.”

4 There isn’t any.

5 A headless bot is an emulated game client. A perfect one would require almost no resources, because it’d just be communicating with the game server directly. Nothing to render, nothing to input, just raw network traffic. This would be seriously unideal for volume, because there’d be no real limitation on how many instances a developer could host simultaneously. But thanks to patch 4.20 and the associated update to our network protocol, we are not very susceptible (bordering on immune) to headless clients.

6 It’s surreal how alike botting applications are to bacteria. They’re high population, variable, and can iterate quickly. Whenever we develop a “cure,” the ones that slip through are inevitably reprioritized by developers, resulting in their “reproduction.” Kinda like how you might get an antibacterial resistant rash that won't realize what's good for it and uninstall itself from your body.
Hey all, hopefully you’ve recovered from the psychological terror that is the Fiddlesticks VGU because today, we’re diving into the second champion you chose for an update last year: Volibear, the Unforgotten Storm. I know it’s been unbearable to wait for more information, but on the bright side, the time between this /dev blog and Voli’s release will be shorter than it was for Fiddlesticks.


Since Volibear isn’t too far away, we’ve decided to keep in-game footage under the veil of the storm and will instead be diving deep into our progress on his VFX, SFX, VO, and gameplay design—plus an early look at his reimagined Northern Storm skin.

A Storm is Brewing
Before we jump into the new stuff, here’s a quick recap.

From the start, our goal with updating Volibear was to fully deliver on his promised theme of “lightning-fueled Freljordian demigod” and create satisfying, modern gameplay to match his legendary status in the Freljord.

One of the early challenges with Volibear was figuring out how to bridge his personality as he appears in game with how he appears in thestories on Universe. His current voice has a calm resonance that gives him a certain honorable dignity. But he’s also a ferocious, ancient god and a literal bear who can overpower you in a fight with the wrath of a storm. In the lore, we’ve seen Volibear as the terrifying entity with many eyes, a monster whose back is studded with the swords of lesser men.

02_Volibear_Monstrous_Horror.jpg
Early “Grotesque-Horror” Volibear Exploration

We explored some of these more grotesque-horror visual designs at first, but one common thing we heard—especially from Volibear mains—was that these designs felt like they strayed too far from live Volibear. We decided that, for his VGU, we wanted to show Volibear as he is to himself, in his most prime, original, godlike form.

Still, some players really liked the “Eldritch Horror” direction, so we’ve decided to take that concept across the finish line and release it as a skin.When Volibear launches, we’re going to give this skin to anyone who already owns him (or picks him up that patch) for free. After that it will join his collection as a regular, purchasable skin.

03_Volibear_Mood_Piece.jpg
Volibear Mood Piece

As for gameplay, we started by exploring the idea of “feeling unstoppable” and tested a kit where Volibear couldn’t be stopped by immobilizing effects (only slowed). We moved away from this design in favor of making Volibear feel more like a god of storms, bringing thunder down upon his enemies and the structure they hide behind. (For the latest on gameplay, check out the section below.)

NOW FOR THE NEW STUFF!
To kick things off, here’s a sneak peak of Volibear’s current in-game model, and let me tell you from experience, it is terrifying to see this guy running at you in-game!

04_Volibear_In_Game_Model.jpg
Volibear’s In-Game Model

Shock and Awe
Nathan “Riot Lutzburg” Lutz, Gameplay Designer:

“Relentless.” This one word drove my inspiration as we started to work on Volibear’s abilities. My hope is that each one feels savage, unforgiving, and inevitable. Volibear’s role sits somewhere between a Juggernaut and a Vanguard, allowing him to dive and disrupt teamfights while ramping up his own threat level over time. While he doesn’t have the perma-unstoppability and slow-conversion we originally tested, there’s still no escape from Volibear. He WILL catch you, and only death can stop him.

So just what are these abilities? We hope you’ll be pleased to learn that most of them will feel like modern takes on his live kit. He still runs on all fours and locks down a single target. He still has a targeted bite, only this time it’s both his opener AND his finisher. He still has ramping attack speed and chain lightning, only now it lasts for as long as he remains in combat. We’ve worked hard to bring in more skill expression to Volibear’s kit, which should make both fighting as (and against) him more satisfying.

Our biggest innovations came from his E and R abilities. With the “savage bear” angle locked, we really wanted to push his fantasy as the Freljordian god of storms. These abilities will grant Volibear several new utility tools he’s never had before, and aim to give players more to master over time. We’re really pulling out all the stops for Volibear’s ultimate, and we hope you don’t find it too shocking.

Lightning Strikes
Neal “Riot Nailock” Wojahn, VFX Artist:

While we aren’t quite ready to reveal what Volibear’s E does, we are going to show you what it looks like… through its VFX. Let’s break it down!

First thing you’ll see is a Freljordian rune carving its way through the earth. This appears with something known as an “erosion map.” Now this might not look like much aside from rainbow puke, but when we separate it into the respective channels, it becomes more clear.

05_Volibear_E_Erodes.jpg
Basically the way these channels work is that anything that’s shown in black is invisible, and anything white is visible. We then run a graph through these channels, and as the value progresses—or goes from light to dark—it reveals more of the texture starting with white and ending with black. The end result looks something like this:

06_Volibear_Warning_Erosion.gif
After these runes glow, the storm begins to gather. This storm is represented with three elements. One is a pretty simple particle of clouds that fades in and erodes out; these orbit and move downward. You’ll notice that there are four different clouds on one sheet—this particle system is set to randomly pick one of these four to help create organic variety.

07_Volibear_Clouds.png
08_Volibear_Clouds.gif
The second element of the storm is the static that arches up. Those sparks are created by modeling simple meshes and spawning them in a random rotation. Again, we put a lightning texture on them that randomly picks one of four cells.

09_Volibear_Static.jpg
10_Volibear_E_Static.gif
The last element of the approaching storm scrolls a windy texture over the mesh as it fades in to create the sense that air is rushing downward.

11_Windy_VFX_Elements.jpg
12_Volibear_Down_Woosh.gif
Next we have the lightning, which is represented by this bolt texture that flashes in at high opacity, then quickly scrolls downward to create the crack of the bolt.

13_Volibear_E_Bolts.jpg
14_Volibear_Bolt.gif
Then we have a shockwave that lets us know the storm has struck. This is achieved by spawning in arches of wind and shooting them out in a radial direction as they change scale to fit the circle shape. Little things like this can go a long way to clarify gameplay.

15_Volibear_E_Flash.gif
After the shockwave flash, there is a glowing crater that's left behind. This uses the same erosion techniques we used for the Freljordian runes, wiping in the shape of the glowing lightning and cracked earth. This then fades away, giving the feeling of rocks sinking back into the ground.

16_E_Hit_Erosion.gif
If you put all those VFX together, this is what you get for Volibear’s E ability!

17_Volibear_E.gif
Thunder Roars
Jayvon “Riot Jirsan” Rymer, Sound Designer:

With every champion, we want to find a unique sound palette that makes them instantly recognizable. VGUs are always a fun challenge because we need to update something that’s existed for years while staying faithful to what it was before.

I definitely wanted to keep some of Voli’s key pillars within his kit, such as “God of Storms,” “Primal Power,” and most importantly, “Ferocious Bear.” I wanted it to sound like this really pissed off lightning bear is running at you andwill catch you. To make him feel more primal and aggressive, I wanted to incorporate some wardrum elements, so I took a few recordings of avalanches and started layering in different drum pieces to accent the cool patterns it was producing:

00:04
This started becoming layers for some of Volibear’s spells, like his Q:

00:01
For his Q impact, I used a drum hit that I treated to sound more like a thunderclap and added more bear elements to the cast:

00:04
Lastly, while working on some bear vocalizations for his kit, I experimented with layering in elephants. Fun fact, they do a lot more than just the trunk trumpet sound that we all know and love… they sound terrifying doing everything else. I worked in a tiny bit of it into his passive breathing loop:

00:06
Plenty more to show later as we get closer to launch, but that's all for now!

The Voice of God
Julian “Riot Zimberfly” Samal VO Designer:

With every VGU, it’s important for the champion to feel leveled up, modernized, and boundary-pushing, without disturbing the core of why people fell in love with that champion in the first place.

For Volibear, I started by listing the core adjectives and feelings that the player should get from his voice and narrative. It was clear to me that it was crucial to push that deep, huge, bassy, beefy, godlike aspects of Voli’s voice as those elements are central to his narrative and an integral part of him that players love.

The first opportunity to shape the voice begins in the VO recording session. Beyond acting prowess from the talent, different recording techniques, the distance the actor is to the microphone, and the pace and projection of the voice can all have a significant effect on the voice experience. For example, on some of Voli’s more solemn lines, like killing an enemy Ornn, the actor gave us deep, sorrowful, and resonant bass in his delivery. But on more violent, bloodthirsty lines, we pulled back on the input gain and let the actor give us a more gravelly, bellowed fury. Voli has a dynamic emotional spectrum, and I hope that is conveyed across the in-game highs and lows.

After the session, I set to work in bringing out the inner god of Voli’s voice, starting with a tasteful amount of controlled bass that doesn’t overwhelm the gamespace.

00:07
I experimented with some huge cavernous reverbs that evoked a Freljordian mountaintop, but mixed very subtly behind the voice, so that you “felt” them more than heard them, but this didn’t feel right on the landscape and architecture of Summoner’s Rift.

00:04
I’m currently experimenting with injecting a more ursine read, and I’m working with some animalistic and bear-related textures, so hopefully I can blend this into a cohesive voice that feels like it’s coming from one unified bear god. Here’s a preview of how Voli is sounding now, which is probably pretty close to final.

00:10
Arctic Skin Ops
Justin “RiotEarp” Albers, Concept Artist

With champion updates, we’re always looking for ways to take older skins and make them something really special now that we have a better understanding of our style, IP, and skin worlds. With the addition of Northern Front Swain, we felt like creating a really cool Arctic Ops version of Northern Storm Volibear would be exciting and match the feeling the skin was originally going for.

Using the Arctic Ops skin line for inspiration, + BEAR, + ELECTRICITY, we went for a first round of ideas.

18_Northern_Storm_Volibear_Concepts1.jpg
Option “C” immediately grabbed everyone’s attention. For a while, we considered keeping some form of the hat since it was a big part of the classic skin, but we felt like the tactical mask, gear, and tesla tech freshened up the existing motif of “cool winter tech.” Now to give him pants…

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin

Arctic Ops Skin
Arctic Ops Skin
We experimented with a few different color options to be sure the camo worked on him and didn’t look too busy or out of character. We opted for the more white/monochromatic version, as the others started to feel like they could be trendy ski jackets.

We also had to figure out what the Northern Storm version of the frozen lightning spikes on Volibear’s back could be. Our idea was to turn them into antennas that would charge up his electricity. We didn’t want the pack on his back to be mistaken for an internet router, so we added charges and a “power” lightning symbol to it. Throughout concepting, we had to make sure the patterns and tech gear still looked good when Voli ran on all fours—a challenge throughout all of development.

Next we made a quick 3D proxy model to be sure this skin design would work on his base rig and that the breather mask could open with his jaw, because our bear is a biter.

22_Northern_Front_Volibear_.jpg
Our team was stoked to work on Northern Storm Volibear, as it’s a vastly different fantasy from base Volibear and felt unique in his skin lineup. We hope you like the final concept! And with that, we’re off to continue updating the rest of Voli’s skins.

23_Northern_Storm_Volibear_Logo.jpg
OUTRO
That's about all we have for Volibear today, but be on the lookout: There's a stream storm fast-approaching. Huddle up in the Freljord as we await its landfall. You'll hear more soon.

… one last thing before we go. The “Eldritch Horror” Volibear skin (which will be given out for free to all players who own or pick up Volibear during his launch patch) now has an official name: Thousand Pierced Volibear.

We leave you with a small tease of its horrifying splash art.
Editorial note: This is the second of a two-part look back on TFT’s creation. To learn more about the first eight weeks, check out part one.

After eight weeks of testing, optimizing, and lagging, the team had a TFT prototype. And although it wasn’t exactly pretty, it was fun as f*&#$. Which meant phase one—make a fun thing—was complete. Up next? Throw out the entire prototype and actually build the game in 10 weeks.

“When we got the greenlight to move forward with production, we knew we needed a lot more people,” says Riot Wittrock. “Luckily, Meddler was able to get some other teams from League to move over and join us. And an R&D project had recently been canceled, so quite a few of them jumped on as well.”


Here are the devs you’ll be hearing from, who are just a small part of that early TFT team:


Riot Nullarbor
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER ― CAMERON ROYAL
Cameron writes code for League of Legends. Also known as that Australian with the obsessively clean desk.

Riot Wrekz
SENIOR GAME DESIGNER ― JORDAN ANTON
Jordan designs games during the day, plays games and at night, and waits for it to snow all year.

Riot Wittrock
GAME DESIGNER ― MATTHEW WITTROCK
Set Designer on TFT. Spends his days making, collecting, and playing games.

Riot Stimhack
DATA SCIENTIST ― RAN CAO
Ran develops machine learning features for Teamfight Tactics. She knows your MMR, she gives you LP, and sometimes she matches you against the strongest player in the lobby.

Riot MapleNectar
PRODUCT LEAD ― RICHARD HENKEL
MapleNectar was the product lead for TFT. Since the time of this interview, he’s retired from Riot and moved to the frozen tundra of Canada to partake in the consumption of mass quantities of maple syrup and poutine.

Meddler
GAME DIRECTOR ― ANDREI VAN ROON
Medler works with the League teams on balance, champions, game modes, progression systems, skins, events, and annual Ryze reworks.

Kilmourz
PRINCIPAL TECHNICAL ARTIST ― TED BARBER
Ted is a master artist, gifted musician, talented skateboarder, and is remarkably handy with a compass. He was a primary contributor for the environment art for TFT, and now resides on Wild Rift helping bring League to phones around the world.
10 Weeks Until Launch: Leaping Off a Sinking Ship
01_10_Weeks_PDF.png
“We always knew the prototype was throw-away. It was really just a picture of what we could build, but not what we would actually build,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “So we reset and started to build again. Only we did it properly this time.”

“Properly” meant the team was no longer cobbling something together on Summoner’s Rift. It was time to bring in the engineers to develop scalable code. With the fundamental game design choices in place—like having a controllable avatar and purchasing units through the UI rather than physical models—the team was able to get started quickly.

But that doesn’t mean they stopped using the prototype build completely, as it was a great way to test ideas before the final build was ready.

“While the engineers were working, we needed to continue playtesting to adjust the roster, tweak the UI, test items and the shop, and all of that,” Riot Wittrock says. “So we continued to use the prototype while the shippable game was being built separately.”

02_Units_are_not_where_they_appear_to_be-(2).jpg
Eventually the team needed to face cold, hard reality and send their darling prototype to pasture.

“The prototype was really held together with duct tape and popsicle sticks,” jokes Riot Wrekz. “As we were progressing with the final build, we went from having one version of the game that worked (the prototype), to two versions of the game that didn’t work (the prototype and the final build), and then, ultimately, one version of the game that worked (the final build… hopefully).”

“I just remember hearing one day that there were all these bugs in the prototype we weren’t going to fix,” says Riot Stimhack. “There was a long list of bugs, but it wasn’t worth having someone go in to fix them anymore.”

“It was like leaping off a sinking ship,” laughs Riot Nullarbor.

7 Weeks Until Launch: Refining The Roster
03_7_Weeks_PDF.png
With seven weeks to PBE, it was time to lock down the initial roster of champions.

“League has a really wide universe,” shares Riot Wittrock. “We wanted to have a good breadth of what the League roster has to offer while still hitting on traditional fantasies. I wanted my ninjas, my dragons. That kind of stuff.”

As the team worked to narrow the roster down they realized that something was off.

“There were a lot of humans,” laughs Riot Stimhack. “It felt a little shallow. But it was also hard to tell the difference between all of the humans standing in a row.”

Luckily League has demons, Void creatures, vastaya, and... yordles.

“We cut things based on feedback from the whole team. So it didn’t really feel bad cutting some things we liked,” Riot Wittrock adds. “We knew we were going to make future sets, so we could add those champions later.”



The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.

The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.

The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.
The roster adjustments sometimes consisted of shuffling champions around, and other times cutting them completely.
So who almost made the first cut?

“Lux was a champion in Set 1 for a while,” Kilmourz offers.

“Oh yeah! The roster was completely different,” Riot Wittrock recalls. “We were playing with Lux, Lee Sin, and Bard for a really long time.”

“Ugh... Bard was the trolliest unit,” Riot Nullarbor interjects. “That ult. Half your team would just suddenly stop fighting.”

“It honestly doesn’t feel like it was that long ago that we had Bard in the game,” adds Meddler.

“Don’t worry,” Riot Wittrock smiles. “Bard will come back some day.”

With champions all but locked, the team focused on a different roster.

06_LL_Concept1.png
“Scuttle was really popular when we were testing it in the prototype, and we knew we wanted to make Little Legends,” Riot Wrekz says. “So we decided to run some ‘personalization’ tests when building the final version.”

“Yeah, people willingly gave their money to Riot Wrekz,” laughs Riot Wittrock.

“No! Well, not really. The entire system was run on sticky notes,” Riot Wrekz admits. “It was an honor system. If you won a playtest you could ‘purchase’ a sticky note with the skin you wanted. And then you were allowed to use that skin.”

“I remember that! It was so fun and motivational,” Riot Stimhack adds. “Everyone wanted those sticky notes.”

5 Weeks Until Launch: Sickness in the Convergence
07_5_Weeks_PDF.png
“We knew we wanted a PvP game where players would fight each other, but we had no idea how to actually get people to each others’ boards,” Riot Wrekz says.

Warning: May cause motion sickness.

“At first we had this boat that you’d ride to travel between boards,” remembers Kilmourz. “You’d get on and sail from one board to the next. But it didn’t fade to black, and the camera would have to swing around to fix the board orientation.”

“Yeah, we had to rotate the camera 180 degrees, so the air ships would launch across the map and the camera would spin while you were traveling,” adds Riot Wrekz.

Pirate ships are all fun and games until someone gets seasick.

“Some of the most magical moments were flying through the mystical void on my ship and passing other people along the way. But then I’d hear people retching behind me because of the motion sickness. That broke the magic really quickly,” says Riot MapleNectar. “I still miss it though.”

To solve the motion sickness issue, the team sacrificed their seaworthy ships and used a vortex portal to travel between boards instead.

4 Weeks Until Launch: The Board
09_4_Weeks_PDF.png
“For the majority of TFT’s development the board was played left-to-right, rather than top-to-bottom,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “We changed a lot with the board quite late in the process.”

In the beginning, the team wanted to make sure that decision-making during the placement stage was important, so they started by making the board smaller. But when players began to give feedback, they realized it wasn’t having the desired effect.

10_Dead_People_(1).png
“The feedback was pretty much unanimous between experienced and inexperienced autobattler players: The boards were too cramped. So we were like, ‘Shit,’” Riot Wittrock laughs. “We needed to think about how we could add more space. At this point we had pretty much everything built out. There were textures, and the artists were already almost done with the boards.”

How could the team get more space without losing precious time completely re-designing, modeling, and skinning the boards?

“At some point we realized that if we flipped the boards from left-to-right to bottom-to-top we’d gain an extra column and the feeling of a larger board,” Riot MapleNectar explains. “It made perfect sense.”

It really did. The team delivered on the feeling of a larger board without actually making the board larger. And with such an aggressive timeline, it would be pure upsides. Right? ...Right?


“After we re-oriented the boards, we ran into the problem where it was almost impossible to see certain champions behind others,” says Kilmourz. “The characters were standing right behind one another, so you’d have giants like Mordekaiser occluding smaller units like Vayne. It made it impossible to see what was going on.”

But there wasn’t enough time to go back to the drawing board again and re-create the boards. They’d found one compromise with rotating the board but created new problems with clarity. So, what now?

The answer was simple: hexagons.

12_For_Brad.jpg
“We’d always considered hexes,” Riot Nullarbor recalls. “We were using squares for a long time, but hexes were never out of the question.”

Hexes have two great properties. Because they have more sides, they’re closer to circles, which makes AoE spells map better. They also distribute champions better and make it much easier to immediately recognize a champ’s silhouette.

“We were really interested in some of the strategic implications of the switch to hexagons, too,” says Riot Wittrock. “There’s an added layer of complexity, you know? There’s more variance in the specificity of positioning. And then you have the orientation of the hexes to think about. It’s just a huge array of design choices that’s really exciting.”

The hexagons also allowed for slightly more organic movement for the art team. Instead of harsh, right angle movements, they were able to keep more natural animations in place.

“We were really excited to leverage some of League’s unique environment art to make boards look awesome,” shares Riot Wrekz. “And the hexes allowed us to create board assets that weren’t perfectly rectangular. It really opened a lot more doors than we were expecting.”

2 Weeks Until Launch: The Finishing Touches
16_2_Weeks_PDF.png
“I’ll never forget the flip-flopping of emotions we all had during the entire process,” Riot MapleNectar remembers. “In the morning we’d come into the office full of hope. Then, by noon, we can’t f&*$#ing make it. After lunch, okay, we might be able to do this thing. And then at night, no, no we definitely can’t. And that was rinse and repeat daily.”

With two weeks left until launch, the team needed to hurry the hell up and finish the damn thing. And that meant adding the minor details.

“We had kind of put the visual effects on hold until we finished with the gameplay,” Kilmourz explains. “Then we had to make a strike team because the fights were too visually loud. You couldn’t tell what was going on between the visual effects, spells, and level ups. EVERYTHING was animating.”

17_Carousel_Gif_Bug.gif
“We had kind of put the visual effects on hold until we finished with the gameplay,” Kilmourz explains. “Then we had to make a strike team because the fights were too visually loud. You couldn’t tell what was going on between the visual effects, spells, and level ups. EVERYTHING was animating.”

18_VFX.jpg
In an effort to save time, the team brought a lot of the assets over from League, but it turns out they’d brought over a bit too much. So they went back and trimmed. And trimmed... And trimmed.


“With nine champions on each team doing stuff at the same time... It was a lot,” laughs Riot Stimhack.

The art team had another challenge to undertake, although it was much... littler in scale.

“Typically, all of our splashes are hand painted digitally by illustrators. But we didn’t really have the time to do that for the Little Legends,” says Kilmourz. “So, instead, we had to render them in Maya and then painted over that to match League splashes.”

Meanwhile...

“I was in so many meetings with publishing folks where they’d ask if we were on track for the launch, and I just said yes with confidence,” laughs Riot MapleNectar. “Meanwhile back in the pit nothing was working. I mean, we were making progress, but the build was broken. And that was within 10 days of launch. I had faith in the team.”

20_widdle_gwffie.gif
1 Week Until Launch: Internal Playtests
21_1_Week_PDF.png
With a week left until PBE, it was time to get feedback from players. Was TFT actually any fun? Did the games feel exciting? Which Little Legend was best? The important stuff. So they turned to the only place they could: Rioters.

“I still don’t know who made the call, but we held an open internal playtest. We set TFT up and sent out an email,” shares Riot Wittrock. “I don’t know if I fully realized it was even happening. All of these people just started giving us feedback, engaging with the game, and they were having fun. I won’t forget that moment. It felt really good.”

Officially, the playtest was for performance and load testing—basically to get as many people playing as possible. And boy, did it exceed expectations.

“For a really long time we were trying to convince people to come to our desks at 5pm and play on our computers,” Riot Wittrock recalls. “It was crazy going from that to suddenly having tons of people queue up for a live game.”

“Yeah, there were games at 2am,” Riot Wrekz laughs.

“That was one of the most incredible moments,” Riot MapleNectar adds. “I remember waking up really early in the morning and there were two Rioters from Russia asking if anyone wanted to play. And then three people from Australia joined. And a few minutes later some from Japan. And just... Suddenly we’d shipped this fledgling game to the world of Riot. And people from around the world were playing together. All of the team’s hard work felt so validated.”

Launch Day
22_0_Weeks_PDF.png
“I’m pretty sure the day we went to PBE was the happiest day of my career,” says Riot MapleNectar. “It was like, we turned on the queue at 1pm. And then someone said we had 1,000 players in-game. And we all started clapping and cheering. It was like we’d launched a missile into space. The four months leading up to that moment... It was just like, ‘F&*$% it. We did it.’”

“When you say, ‘We all started clapping and cheering,” what exactly do you mean?” Meddler asks.

“I mean, like, everyone in our pit and the game modes team,” answers Riot MapleNectar.

“Because that cheer made it all around the office,” Meddler responds. “At least in our area.”

“What? Really? I didn’t know that!” Riot MapleNectar smiles.

“I remember the cheer moment,” Riot Stimhack adds.

“No one wanted to get left out,” laughs Riot Wrekz. “Some people had no idea what was going on, but they were like, ‘Yeahhhhhh!’ And clapping.”

“I just remember being surprised because the PBE normally seems to be massively over-provisioned for what it needs,” Riot Nullarbor shares. “On a normal day the PBE is running at about 10% capacity. But then on TFT launch day it was at 100% with a really, really long queue.”

“When we saw the queue a bunch of us were just sitting around hitting F5 and watching the Twitch viewer count go up,” Meddler laughs. “‘Oh, 20,000! Now it’s 50,000! I wonder how high it’ll go!’ And eventually it culminated in Riot MapleNectar running around and high-fiving everyone. It was kind of adorable.”

23_tft_map2.jpg

And Now?
“I’m just really excited for the future,” shares Riot Wittrock. “The creation and launch were just two of the many steps of—what I hope is—a game for years to come. I’m excited thinking back on everything, but I really think it’s just one of the checkpoints in the history of TFT.”

The team accomplished something that had, really, never been done at Riot: They made something for players from scratch in only a few months. From janky prototype on Summoner’s Rift to full-blown game mode.

“I think, genuinely, it was the coolest to work on a team of incredibly talented and passionate people. Everyone was running in the same direction, and that’s what let us get this done so quickly,” says Riot MapleNectar. “Literally every single person was pivotal to making TFT. There wasn’t a single person we could have done without. And I can only hope to get a similar experience in the future. Because this feels incredibly unique. I think it’s a once in a lifetime thing.”

In just 18 weeks TFT went live to players around the world. Now we’re nearly a year in and on Set 3 (Galaxies!), and the team is still optimistic about what’s to come. So here’s to them, and to you. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to make TFT. And thank you for playing.
Editorial note: Hey! Instead of dumping an absolute truckload of text on you, we decided to split this story into two-parts. The second part will be available tomorrow, 4/3, at 10:00am PT.

“Hey, have you tried Auto Chess?” There was no escaping this question at Riot in the first few months of 2019—either you were talking Auto Chess, or you risked being “ok boomer”ed by your team.

It didn’t take long for that question to become, “Wait, why don’t we make something like this?” We thought it was worth a try, but it needed to be done quickly because there was no way we were the only ones thinking this could be a big deal. Still, it didn’t make sense to take a bunch of League’s devs off their projects to pursue something we weren’t 100% sure about. So we kept the team small. Twelve people small.

Since we didn’t want to risk being left behind, we gave ourselves an... aggressive timeline. Eighteen weeks. Eight to see if we could make something fun and ten to actually do it. That left us with two questions: How do we even? And who’s dumb enough to try?

The devs you’ll be hearing from (who are just a small part of the initial TFT team):


Riot Nullarbor
SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER ― CAMERON ROYAL
Cameron writes code for League of Legends. Also known as that Australian with the obsessively clean desk.

Riot Wrekz
SENIOR GAME DESIGNER ― JORDAN ANTON
Jordan designs games during the day, plays games and at night, and waits for it to snow all year.

Riot Wittrock
GAME DESIGNER ― MATTHEW WITTROCK
Set Designer on TFT. Spends his days making, collecting, and playing games.

Riot Stimhack
DATA SCIENTIST ― RAN CAO
Ran develops machine learning features for Teamfight Tactics. She knows your MMR, she gives you LP, and sometimes she matches you against the strongest player in the lobby.

Riot MapleNectar
PRODUCT LEAD ― RICHARD HENKEL
MapleNectar was the product lead for TFT. Since the time of this interview, he’s retired from Riot and moved to the frozen tundra of Canada to partake in the consumption of mass quantities of maple syrup and poutine.

Meddler
GAME DIRECTOR ― ANDREI VAN ROON
Medler works with the League teams on balance, champions, game modes, progression systems, skins, events, and annual Ryze reworks.

Kilmourz
PRINCIPAL TECHNICAL ARTIST ― TED BARBER
Ted is a master artist, gifted musician, talented skateboarder, and is remarkably handy with a compass. He was a primary contributor for the environment art for TFT, and now resides on Wild Rift helping bring League to phones around the world.
18 Weeks Until Launch: The Countdown Begins
“We went through all the pitches for a League autobattler and formed a high-level outline,” says Meddler.

There were three goals: Improve the design (better controls and UI, faster rounds, etc.), apply our over 200 years of collective experience (read: balancing and adding features), and—arguably the most important—make it fun enough that the b o o m e r s who weren’t playing Auto Chess wanted to play.

“Once the core team was formed, we had eight weeks to identify whether it was even possible to build,” shares Riot Wrekz. “And we had to figure out if it was any good. We wanted it to be unique and fun, but still have that thing that drew us to the genre.”

01_Doomsday_Clock.jpg
“On day one I put a giant red doomsday clock on the wall,” laughs Riot Wittrock. “It was a little intimidating, but we kept it up as a constant reminder that we needed to remain focused.”

17 Weeks Until Launch: League of Prototypes
02_17_Weeks_PDF.png
“We spent a lot of time the first few weeks figuring out how to get a prototype working. Which... was a challenge,” says Riot Wittrock.

The team started by using assets from League—which wasn’t always smooth sailing.

03_Darius_AFK.png
League’s game engine is custom-built for one thing: League of Legends. And while some things change (like the map, champions, and dragons), the number of players (generally) doesn’t.

“Because League’s so heavily hyper-optimized for a 10-player game and the 8-player version of TFT we envisioned loaded significantly more assets, we would actually have to run more servers to support the same number of players,” explains Riot Nullarbor. “It was quite taxing on the game client as well.”

On top of this, we wanted players to be able to recruit units (aka champions), place them strategically, and witness the ensuing battle—this “army commander” fantasy was one of the things we found so appealing about Auto Chess. But to do that, each player needed to field more than one champion at a time. And that wasn’t something the servers were built to handle.

That meant nearly every early game of TFT ended because of lag. There was no finish. No victory. Only lag.

04_Rakan_Bug_TFT.gif
Even in later versions of the prototype, lag wasn’t the only bug the team encountered. How do I hold all of these Rakans?

“There were nine units fighting nine other units, plus up to 10 champions sitting on each player’s bench,” says Riot Nullarbor. “There could be over 100 champions in the game at once, plus these crazy teamfights constantly going on. We had to remove a lot of things that weren’t necessary and then optimize the code. League’s got a much bigger map than we needed, so we were able to cut a lot of that out to get things running.”

15-12 Weeks Until Launch: The Gameplay
05_15_Weeks_PDF.png
Riot’s open floor plan means that people are free to walk around, look at walls lined with art, awkwardly scan name tags to find the person who uses a photo of their dog as their Slack icon, and chat at peoples’ desks. It encourages collaboration and idea-sharing, but sometimes it’s counterproductive, especially if you’re trying to sprint to a finish line that could be in any direction.

“We spent most of the eight weeks of prototyping isolated from the rest of the company. We went as far as pushing ourselves into a corner and putting walls around the team so no one could come and talk to us,” Riot Nullarbor says.

“Yeah, Andrei sent out a bunch of emails basically asking other folks who were interested in what we were doing to not come share their ideas,” Riot Wrekz adds. “It was unusual for Riot and felt a little bit exclusionary, but it was important for efficiency.”

“And influence,” offers Kilmourz. “Leaders wanted us to explore on our own and not be too influenced by other games in the genre.”

So the team sat in a small corner and tried to figure out how the hell they were going to make TFT.

Week 14: Trains, Towns, and User Interface
06_14_Weeks_PDF.png
“How do you buy units from the shop? Are they just part of the UI or did the models appear? Do you have an avatar to move around or is everything click and drag?” says Riot Wrekz. “There were a bunch of fundamental control schemes we needed to decide on early.”

There wasn’t really a UI at all at first, since most of the early efforts went to making the prototype run.

“In the beginning, we were trying to understand the game through a series of debug messages printed in chat,” says Riot Nullarbor.

“We just broke stuff if it wasn’t going to be used in the final version of TFT,” Riot Wrekz explains. “So when we did make UI changes... well, we didn’t actually make UI changes during the prototype. We just demolished the League of Legends UI and built what we wanted on top of the smoking wreckage.”


Senior QA lead Alex “Riot Ranger XIV” Sherrell showing off some very fancy new TFT UI.



Figuring out TFT’s basic UI forced the team to think about how champions even arrived at players’ boards. And some of the ideas were pretty... interesting.

“At some point we imagined that champions would arrive on trains,” Riot Nullarbor recalls. “We’d have a little train depot where it’d park with champions that you could purchase.”

Even though the image of Garen, Darius, and Warwick politely sitting side-by-side waiting to be purchased was oddly adorable, the idea quickly derailed. The re-rolling function would require the trains to arrive and depart quickly to keep games from taking too long. And while supersonic trains rolling in and out of your board would be a fun flex, the amount of resources it’d require to run and animate would be too taxing.

“We also explored having a town around the board that would level up and get bigger the further you progressed,” says Riot Wittrock. “Champions would sit on the left side of your board in a little shop, and you’d buy ’em by grabbing and throwing them onto the field.”

The team sadly ended up going for a different approach for practical reasons...


“League forces you to load into the game as something,” shares Riot Wittrock. “Early on we used Scuttle because it was native to League.”

Scuttle was a little crazy in the beginning. At one point, you could pick up other Scuttles with your own chad Scuttle and throw them around. Or you could pick champions up from your bench mid-battle and dump them into a Tahm Kench-shaped garbage can, showing your opponent exactly what you thought of their Assassin comp.

10_Baron_for_Scale_Shareable.png
There was also a bug where Scuttle grew exponentially, eventually dwarfing Baron.

Although the crab-on-crab warfare went a little too far, it added a layer of fun and interaction that the team really liked, and thus Little Legends were (eventually) born.

Week 13: The Roster
11_13_Weeks_PDF.png
“We viewed champions in TFT as little love letters to their League counterparts,” says Riot Wrekz. “We wanted to find a way to make the core thematic for each champion shine through, even though we couldn’t use every single one of their abilities.”

12_TFT_Combat.gif
“We didn’t want to just use the ults for every champion,” adds Kilmourz. “Take Braum, for instance. You’d expect him to just do his ult, but the most iconic thing about Braum is probably his shield.”

The team generally had an easy time simplifying each champion, which sometimes meant using multiple abilities, like Lucian’s dash and double shot. But grouping champions into categories for traits was a bit more difficult.

“We’ve tried for so many years to make champions feel really unique,” Riot Wittrock explains. “Which is great for League of Legends! But we ran into problems when trying to group them for TFT.”

Factions and origins stood out as the obvious categories.

“When we started splitting champions up into their factions, we realized it didn’t always make perfect sense,” Riot Wrekz admits. “Garen is from Demacia, Darius is from Noxus, sure. But then you have champs like Janna... It’s not exactly clear that she’s from Zaun. We started to run into so many edge cases that just didn’t make a lot of sense.”



The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.

The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.
The champions, synergies, and origins changed slightly every day to make everything feel more cohesive.
“An important learning moment was when we realized we could lean into League’s alternate universes,” says Riot Wittrock. “We ended up going with a pretty subtle approach, but exploring universes helped us make groupings that made more sense and felt thematically appropriate.”

Week 12: FIGHT!
17_12_Weeks_PDF.png
“We really liked the buying and planning phases in autobattlers,” explains Riot Wittrock. “But the combat tended to be this zoomed-out view with a lot of spell effects going off, making things difficult to understand. We really wanted to improve on that.”

The plan? Make combat as exciting as possible without sacrificing clarity.

“We wanted it to feel like you’re observing a Bronze teamfight,” Riot Wittrock shares. “It’s a bunch of people casting their spells in a way that kind of makes sense, but it’s not like watching Diamond players. It feels like a League teamfight, just... a little wrong.”

“We wanted to avoid the cloud of visual effects and particles that we saw elsewhere,” says Riot MapleNectar. “At first, it was hard to see what was going on underneath 18 champions casting abilities, so we needed to spend time cleaning things up.”

In addition to cutting back on some of the VFX, the team found some other unique ways to increase visual clarity.

19_Initial_Speeds_TFT.gif
Initial animation speeds were a little too quick.

20_Proposed_Speeds_TFT.gif
Slowed down animations.

“A lot of the animations in League are super fast,” explains Kilmourz. “Spellcasting is all about feeling responsive and satisfying. But it made it difficult to see what was happening in a 9v9 fight. So we had to slow everything way down.”

11 Weeks Until Launch: The Greenlight
21_11_Weeks_PDF.png
After eight weeks of testing, optimizing, and lagging, the team had a prototype. And although it wasn’t exactly pretty, it was fun as f*&#$.

“At the start of the entire process, we kept promising that the prototype would be good,” reminisces Riot Wrekz. “And then when people finally got to play it, they agreed.”

Which meant phase one—make a fun thing—was complete. Up next? Throw out the entire prototype and actually build the game in 10 weeks.

Editorial note: Be sure to check back tomorrow, 4/3, at 10:00am PT for the rest of TFT’s story.
Intro
The start of a new Teamfight Tactics set is the best time to revisit some of our core systems that need an update. As with everything, we’re always looking for ways to improve the core of TFT, so we’ve got quite a few changes coming we think will be pretty positive. So let’s take a look at them as you’ll encounter them during a typical game.

The Carousel
Right away, you’ll notice that the first carousel is all 1-cost champions instead of 2-cost champions. The main reason for this has to do with income changes we’ll talk about in a second, but we also found that these 2-cost champions never had the effect we originally intended. Though we wanted the first champ to guide your comp, it turned out that simply selling a 2-cost champion was almost always the best decision. Now the cost of keeping that champion is much lower, and it should be a viable option.

But that’s not the biggest change. In Rise of the Elements, the arrangement of items got pretty stale. Early on in the set, you could predictably count on most of the items to be there, including the Spatula. Getting one of those on the first carousel was quite powerful, and many viable strategies involved losing early to get a good economy and an almost-guaranteed Spatula. In the later part of the set, we removed Spatula, which showed some promise, but was also too restrictive to gameplay variety. So we’re adding a LOT of variation to carousel possibilities.

Spatula can now appear on the carousel again, but much less often than before.
Full items can show up earlier than the fifth carousel.
Components can show up in the sixth carousel and beyond.
Many new carousel arrangements have been added.
CarouselAllRods.jpg


This is all leaning into our goal of making adaptability the most rewarding skill. For example, you may go to the second carousel and find it’s all full items. You’ll need to think on your feet and change your plan accordingly. Look out for all the new possible ways the carousel can play out!


Income
For most of Rise of the Elements, there has just been too much gold in the system. Your first and second shops were basically no decision (you just buy everything) and it was possible to hit 30 gold before the first PVP round. We’re going to be toning that down a lot.

Passive Income (by stage): 1-2-5-4-5-5… >>> 0-2-2-3-4-5-5…
Gold & Champions Medium boxes can’t drop in the first two PVE rounds.
This leads to tough decisions in the early game. When you only have a 1-gold champ from the first carousel and 2 gold from passive income, you actually have to think about your first shop. We believe this will lead to more strategic decision-making and interesting gameplay. But to make sure you don’t get put into a bad situation with the smaller amounts of gold, we’re making one more change:

Level 3 Champion drop buckets (by Tier): (70%/25%/5%/0%/0%) >>> (70%/30%/0%/0%/0%)
Now at Level 3, you won’t get put in a bad situation when you roll one or more Tier 3 champions and can’t afford them.

Another change we're making is to increase the viability of aiming for a win or loss streak rather than just backing into it.

Streak Breakpoints: 2-3(1g), 4-6(2g), 7+(3g) >>> 2-3(1g), 4-5(2g), 6+(3g)
Streak gold is now paid during PVE rounds.
Finally, the last change is one we’re making to even the playing field a bit. There's been an unintended (and frankly not well known) trick where you can sell your carousel champion during the transition to the next stage to hit a higher-than-intended gold breakpoint. So we're removing the ability to sell champions during the carousel stage.

Player Damage
We’re making a pretty big change to player damage to simplify the system a bit. We're also reducing the difference in damage you take round to round depending on how bad you lose.

Base Damage Per Stage: 0/2/3/4/5/6/7 >>> 0/3/4/6/10/14/20
Additional damage per surviving champion is now +1 damage, no matter the cost or star level of the champion.
If everything is done correctly, the pace of the game should be very similar to what you’re experiencing on live (maybe a LITTLE slower in the early game), but it should be much easier to figure out how much damage you’re going to take. In addition, running into that super-strong enemy who high-rolled a very strong comp won’t be quite as punishing as it was before.

Combat
We also took a good look at what we could do to improve combat, and found—well, quite a bit. Here’s the breakdown:

Melee champions now move slightly earlier at the start of combat than ranged champions.
Champions now move more smoothly from hex to hex when walking.
If a champion is in the attack range of their target, and the target moves out of range, the attacker will now only chase their target for 1 hex before switching to the closest enemy.
These changes should improve a lot of the rougher cases we saw in Rise of the Elements, such as ranged units walking into melee range, or champions walking around aimlessly trying to chase moving targets. This should result in better-feeling combat all around.

Mana gain from attacking by star level: 8/10/12 >>> 10/10/10
Throughout Rise of the Elements, we saw that MOST of the 1-star champions were just too weak to consider running. (Annie was a notable exception.) We’re going to be making changes to things like spell powers to make them a more viable option. This should help 1-star champions cast more often and be more relevant.

Grievous Wounds: 80% Healing Reduction >>> 50% Healing Reduction
Even at 80%, things like Morellonomicon, Red Buff, and Kindred were too strong at shutting down healing options. This led to cases where comps that rely on healing as an output (Light being the main example) either being REALLY strong if the opponent didn’t have Grievous Wounds, or REALLY weak if they did. So we’re going to be pulling back a bit, which should allow us to balance the heals a bit more evenly. You should still want Grievous against a Soraka, but not feel like the Soraka no longer does anything.

Every champion now has an AP scaler on their abilities. AP can scale things other than damage/healing/shielding.
We actually dabbled in this a little bit in Rise of the Elements. Did you know that Karma’s shield AND the attack speed bonus scaled with AP? We found that it was pretty beneficial to let every champion use AP in some way, so that more items could be used and open up new build options. So now every champ uses AP somehow. Take a look and see what kind of crazy triple Deathcap 6 Sorcerer options you can discover!

Other System Changes worth noting
Level 7 Drops (20%/30%/33%/15%/2%) >>> (20%/30%/33%/16%/1%)
Neeko’s Help is ~35% less likely to drop from all boxes.
Increased Spatula drop rate from Gold Boxes.
Disarm no longer prevents spell casts. Only auto attacks.
We’re reducing the chance of seeing a Legendary champion at Level 7. We still want them to appear at Level 7 and won’t budge on that, but we want more incentive to level up. If you really need that Legendary champ to finish your comp, you’re better off just leveling to 8. Neeko’s Help is also appearing a bit too often, as we want that item to feel rare and special, so we’re lowering that. Spatula drop rate is up very slightly, so you may see more of them from Gold Boxes. And finally the Disarm status effect is no longer basically a stun. It was kind of silly that being disarmed prevented you from casting spells, so now if you’re disarmed but at full mana, you can cast! We feel this allows us to use Disarm more as a status effect as well, so expect to see at least 1 champion who can Disarm with their ability.

Items
Last thing to cover is items. We’re continually looking at the items, both in terms of balance and satisfaction, and we saw an opportunity to change quite a few of them. You’re going to see 3 new replacement items and then a bunch of balance changes. Let’s break down the new items:


Hush ⇒ Chalice of Favor (Tear of the Goddess + Negatron Cloak)

Whenever you cast your spell, give all nearby allies 10 mana.
Chalice is a new item that requires you to position your team around it to get the full effect, but it can be incredibly strong if you’re willing to do so. For example, putting the item on someone who casts very early in a fight gives your entire team a bunch of mana, accelerating their spell casts and giving you the edge. If you played the Launch Set, it’s kind of like Twisted Fate’s Blue Card!


Iceborne Gauntlet ⇒ Shroud of Stillness (Brawler’s Glove + Chain Mail)

At the start of combat, shoot a beam forward that causes all enemies hit to have their max mana increased by 40% until they cast once.
Shroud of Stillness is a new positional item, kind of like Zephyr, but with a much bigger risk/reward payoff. When you place the item and move your champion, you will see a purple beam.

Shroud_Example.png
At the start of combat, every enemy hit by the beam has their max mana increased by 40% until they cast once. (Kind of like Poison, but not permanent.) If you can hit key champions with this, it can have a big impact and delay their spells… but it can also completely whiff if you didn’t position right. Positioning around this should open up a new challenge!


Titanic Hydra ⇒ Zz’Rot Portal (Recurve Bow + Giant’s Belt)

Upon death, summon a Voidling with 1000/2000/4000 HP that taunts all nearby enemies
Finally we have Zz’Rot Portal. We wanted to give a good general-use item to teams that may need more front line, and Zz’Rot portal is great for this. Put this on a front line champion that casts a key spell, and after they die, they spawn a tanky Voidling that taunts, buying you a lot of time.

Hopefully these new items open up more options. In addition, we’re making the following balance changes to items to make sure all the possible items are viable based on Galaxies and the situation:

Deathblade Starting Stacks: 1 ⇒ 3
Giant Slayer: 9% current HP ⇒ 12% current HP physical damage
Hextech Gunblade Vamp: 33% ⇒ 35%
Ionic Spark: Now also reduces nearby enemies’ MR by 50% (does not stack)
Quicksilver: CC Immune ⇒ CC Immune for the first 10 seconds.
Rabadon’s Deathcap Bonus AP: 75% ⇒ 50%
Redemption: Wearer heals entire team for 800 hp on death
Runaan’s Hurricane projectile damage 60% ⇒ 70% of standard
Statikk Shiv: 85 ⇒ 70 dmg per bounce
Warmog’s Armor: 6% missing HP ⇒ 5% missing HP, max of 150 HP/tick
Zeke’s Herald: 15% AS ⇒ 18% AS
Zephyr Banish Duration: 6 sec ⇒ 5 sec
Outro
So, there ya go! A lot to look forward to. Give it a try and let us know what you think! Our goal is that these changes continue to make TFT better. The genre as a whole is still new, so we’re learning as we go, but we’re confident that with your continued passion and feedback, TFT will be a great game for years to come. Have fun in Galaxies!
TL;DR: Over the next six months or so we'll ship a number of changes and improvements to the League client's backend infrastructure. To track our process, we'll be sharing specific targets for two main client performance metrics: client bootstrap time (how long it takes for the client to boot up) and champ select lock-in time. In the process of improving these metrics, we'll also be tackling things like bugs, crashes, etc. Put simply, our goal is to fix the client.

"Riot, when are you going to fix the client?"

It's a question a lot of you have been asking. The client is not in great shape. It's got too many bugs, too much lag (especially in champ select), and a whole host of issues like memory leaks, crashes, freezes, and on and on. We've made commitments to do something about the client before, and yet problems remain.

So we want to try something different.

Instead of talking in vague terms about our plans, today we're sharing specific performance targets and clear details on the changes we intend to ship over the next six months.

First, let's talk about some recent performance improvements we've made and dig into some hard numbers that will serve as guideposts as we pursue future improvements.

THE CLIENT IN NUMBERS
Late last year, we added some tools to the client that allow us to track basic performance indicators like, for example, the amount of time it takes for the client to boot up and become fully functional (aka "bootstrap").

We would like bootstrap to take under 15 seconds, even for players with relatively slow machines. However, we found that, currently, bootstrap can take up to three or even four times that long for some players.

Another major thing we've been tracking is "champ select lock-in" time. This is the amount of time that it takes the client to register that you've locked in your champ after you click the button. In the chart below, you'll see average response times for champ select lock-in during patch 9.22 (orange line) and in patch 10.2 (blue line). Lock-in response time is calculated in milliseconds.

champselectpercentile.png
The chart above shows how vastly different champ-select response times can be for different players. Of course, client performance varies depending on how fast your machine is. If, for instance, it takes under 200ms for you to lock-in, your machine is in the 10th percentile, and your response times are faster than 90% of all players. Likewise, if response times for you are over 800ms, you're in the 90th percentile, which means your client is running slower for you than for 90% of all players.

As you can see, lock-in times got a lot better for players during patch 10.2 compared to patch 9.22. The big reason for the improvement is that, in patch 9.23, we updated the version of Chromium that the client runs on. It got us some big gains, but we think the client is still far too slow for many of you.

To see what we mean, let's take a peek at a more detailed view of champ select lock-in response speed over time for a few of those specific groups.

threepercentiles.png
As you can see, the blue line represents the 50th percentile, or the "median" player. The big drop in response times for the median player here is good. But you can see that even as of early 2020, champ select response times for the median player are hovering around 300ms. That's not horrible, but it's still a perceptible delay.

The 70th percentile players (green line) have also experienced big improvements recently, but champ select response times for them are hovering around 450ms. That's nearly a half a second delay, which is frankly much slower than what we'd want for anyone with a halfway decent machine.

Lastly, take a look at the 90th percentile (orange line) in all its terrible glory. By definition, these players are going to be experiencing a slower response time than most. But 800ms is too high, and that's where these players are sitting even after the Chromium update.

So! Let's talk about what we're going to do next.

WHAT WE'RE GOING TO PRIORITIZE NEXT
There are two specific, long-term targets for client performance that we're prioritizing:

We want to lower bootstrap time to about 15 seconds, even for 90th percentile players. That's between three and four times faster, compared to where it's at now.
We want to get champ select lock-in response times down to around 100ms for 90th percentile players. That's about eight times faster than today.
We know what you're thinking. What about the bugs? What about crashes and memory leaks?

Why prioritize these two things first? The reason is that, in the process of addressing bootstrap time and champ select lock-in time, we're going to be cleaning up and reworking certain fundamental aspects of the client's architecture. We believe that we'll be able to opportunistically address bugs, memory leaks, and crashes while pursuing these targets.

Issues like the "black screen" bug in champ select and rune pages not saving properly are just examples of things we intend to address as part of this process. But we want to be very transparent about the fact that this will take time. We currently have a rough six month plan that we believe will earn us meaningful progress toward these goals. But reaching our long-term targets will likely take longer.

These are targets, and it's possible we may fall short. We're sharing our targets with you because we know that in order to build back up trust in the client, we have to be more transparent than ever.


So, you're asking, how exactly are we going to do it?

HOW WE’RE GOING TO DO IT
So far we've identified two major architectural problems that contribute to slow bootstrap times. The first is our plugin architecture, which allows us to break the code for the client up into useful chunks. This architecture has gotten bloated as we've added more new functionality to the client. Second, we're misusing the Javascript framework (called Ember) that drives our UI.

Right now, the client uses far too many plugins and Ember apps. In fact, during the client's bootstrap process, we load in 41 separate plugins and 16 apps. Each of these takes anywhere from 100ms to 800ms each to start up. That's not great.

Our plan is to consolidate all those plugins and apps down into way fewer (and theoretically more efficient) plugins and apps. We're going to focus on the ones that start up during bootstrap first because we believe that'll get us the biggest gains throughout the client.

PHASE 1: BOOTSTRAP
Today it takes as long as 40 seconds for many of you to get through bootstrap. If you're one of these players, you know that the experience can be extremely slow and janky. It also means that when your client crashes, restarting it is that much more painful.

Lots of things throughout the client like notifications, the friends list, and the collection tab are affected by the plugins and apps that start up during bootstrap. So although our stated long-term goal is to get bootstrap time down to 15 seconds for the 90th percentile player, we think that in the process we'll also be addressing a bunch of bugs and inefficiencies that have an impact throughout the client.

After a few months of focusing on bootstrap, we'll assess how close we are to our goals, and then—probably near the end of spring—we'll move on to focus specifically on champ select.

PHASE 2: CHAMP SELECT
Champ select introduces many additional plugins and Ember apps. To put it bluntly, almost everything you do in champ select creates new apps. Trading champions generates two of them. So does changing your summoner spell.

The longer you play League in a single session, the more these apps pile up on top of each other, resulting in an increasingly laggy experience. This problem is compounded by the fact that most of the actions you take during champ select rely on communication with our servers, adding latency to every interaction.

The real, root problem in champ select is the way that our backend systems manage data. The current architecture of champ select allows us to pass a lot of powerful data through our systems. For example, if Riot decides to disable a champion in ranked, that champion will become disabled almost immediately for all players, including those who are currently in champ select when the disable is pushed live.

That's a very powerful system, but it requires a lot of horsepower to make it work. And the way the system is currently set up, there's a lot of unnecessary gates and bottlenecks in the process. So oftentimes, tons of data gets re-rendered when only one small input has been changed. This results in tons of damage to your client experience.

To fix this, we'll have to fundamentally change the way our champ select backend infrastructure works. We're going to rework how all data is passed through from server to client during champ select, which will take some time.

We have other ambitious, long-term goals that could make champ select even more efficient, like consolidating the whole client down to a single Ember app with no plugins at all. But for the short term, we want to implement enough changes to make the client run at our target rates, which we've shared above.

It's unclear how close to "good" we'll be when we finish this six-month process. But when we get to the end of it, we think we'll probably have made a ton of progress and discovered clear next steps.

NEXT STEPS
We're going to be checking in every couple of months with dev blogs sharing our progress, which will include hard numbers on performance and any tweaks to the project's timeline.

Wish us luck! And thanks for being League players. We'll chat more soon.
As we approach the end of Rise of the Elements, it’s time to reflect on what we promised for the set, how we did, and what new lessons we’ll take forward as we move into the next chapter for Teamfight Tactics. (In case you missed it, the next set will be TFT: Galaxies. Head here for an intro to the new set mechanic or here for a preview of a few of the upcoming origin traits.)

This is a long one, so here's the TLDR:
Looking Back…

TFT: Galaxies will have a LOT less random targeting for individual spells and will be more focused on specific things you can play around.
Balance was better in Rise of the Elements than in the launch set (more viable strategies, fewer drastic shifts), but there's still room for improvement.
Traits with strong disables (like Glacial) were less frustrating in Rise of the Elements, but we're still keeping an eye on them moving forward.
Soft counters are good, hard counters are not so good. Expect us to continue making more soft counters and even fewer hard counters.
Galaxies will feature one big mid-set expansion instead of the smaller one-off trait and champion additions.
Bugs are still bad, and while there were fewer of them in Rise of the Elements, we need to be even better.
Looking Forward…

We want spells to have higher impact, have greater clarity, and be more exciting visually.
Expect more viable carries across the cost spectrum.
Major traits (the big ones) should be a viable option, but should always be a little bit weaker than a truly creative combination of traits.
The Spatula is coming back to the carousel but in more controlled and… unique ways.
The new ranked season will start immediately with Galaxies, and the reset will work differently.
Looking Back
Let's talk about how we did applying our major learnings from the first set to RotE, including ways we hope to continue improving going forward.

We want to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces.
02_Random_Effects.jpg
We made progress here, but not as much as we could have. While it’s true that some of the more insane things like Phantom and Hextech were gone, there were still some effects that were random and fight-deciding. At the beginning of RotE, Mountain was often considered “Reverse Phantom,” though it didn’t end up being as impactful as was originally feared.

The bigger issue was our spell targetting.

Having so many champions with randomly-targeting spells led to a lot of extreme variance in fights. Taliyah and Azir were especially rough because they started with very high mana pools, which led to fights being decided by where their first cast went. Some random spells worked out quite well (Malphite and Lux) and added a healthy amount of fight variance. AoE Spells with variance make positioning a rich decision-making challenge, while single target CC spells that start early end up feeling like dice rolls.

For the next set, you’ll see a LOT less random targeting on spells and more focused on specific things you can play around. For example, one new spell is always aimed at the enemy with the most attack speed. This will allow you to use your game knowledge to outplay opponents more often.

Hold us to a higher standard for balancing the game so that a wider variety of comps can win in a given patch.
03_Balance.jpg
This is another one where we made significant progress compared to the launch set but didn’t nail it. The balance of Rise of the Elements was overall much better than the launch set, with way less outliers. But it also had its share of misses. Singed at launch, Brand in 9.23, Amumu in 9.24, “blender” Nocturne and Azir, and Yorick & Zed all jump out as clear balance issues that were a bit dominant in their given patch.

That being said, two things greatly helped balance in RotE. One is that the set’s design allowed counter options to come up in a lot of cases, so even if something was dominant, there were traits like Mystic and Cloud that could still give you a leg up. The other was that we were quicker to adapt when things became dominant. Strategic B-patches to target big outliers were helpful in bringing things to a more balanced state quicker. We also took a lighter-touch approach to balance, which led to less dramatic meta shifts, so people weren’t as thrown off patch to patch.

So while we made progress, we can still get better with balance. Continue to hold us responsible in making more comps viable patch to patch.

We’re aiming for less frustrating and fewer disables overall.
04_Disables.jpg
This is one we pretty clearly met. Compared to the launch set, there were just FAR fewer disables. The only really frustrating one was probably Olaf being Glacial Berserker. Someone with a 1.5 attack speed (or more) who AoE cleaves and freezes multiple champs was probably a bit over the line. Even when he was balanced or even sometimes underpowered, it just FELT frustrating to have your whole team frozen. Disables are healthy for keeping the pace of the game in check and creating tension in the battles, but when they get overwhelming (such as Launch 6 Glacial) that balance goes away.

Moving forward we will still have disables, as they are a key part of TFT champ design, but we’ll be keeping an eye on them and providing strategic and tactical ways to play around them.

Rise of the Elements will have more traits in the “soft counter” space.
05_Counters.jpg
This was a success, but also taught us a lot. Gone from the launch set were things like Dragon (100% magic damage reduction), and in its place were things like Mystic and Cloud. These traits allowed you to adapt and make smart decisions based on your opponents, but weren’t foolproof win conditions against certain comps. This was successful.

But we learned that even better-designed traits like Mystic still leave people feeling like they were hard countered. In addition, there were still a few traits that had that “hard counter” feel. (4 Desert vs 6 Warden being the biggest example). With this in mind, expect us to continue using soft counter traits even more while avoiding hard counters altogether.

Rise of the Elements will ship less total content patches, but each one will be larger.
06_Content_Drops.jpg
While it’s true that we didn’t ship any content patches with only one champ like we did in the launch set, we’re still not happy with the way our content patches are coming out.

There were basically two major patches in Rise of the Elements that added content:

9.24: Added Lucian, Senna, Amumu, Soulbound, and UI improvements.
10.1: Added Leona, Karma, Lunar, and Item Reworks.
Other than that, patches were typically balance changes and small systemic adjustments (such as removing Spatula from the carousel). We feel like having two content patches that aren’t that big isn’t the best we can do, so for Galaxies we’re going to take a different approach. We’re going to launch one mid-set expansion, focusing our efforts on one specific cool moment to come back and see all the new stuff.

B-Patches will be extremely small and only for nerfing strong outliers.
07_B_Patch.jpg
We did this one really well. 9.22 and 9.23 didn’t have B-patches. 9.24 had a large one due to the holiday, but otherwise would've been fine. 10.1 had a small B patch that did exactly as we described (only nerfed 3 outliers), and 10.2 didn’t have a B-patch.


Our goal is to keep changes at a smaller and healthier amount than what we did in the launch set, and we seemed to hit that with RotE. The next step is to try to lessen the number of actual balance changes needed each patch so that things aren’t shifting around as much. That said, the B-Patch rules will continue into the next set, with us only using them to nerf outliers in extreme cases.

Rise of the Elements will have less bugs and issues.
08_Bugs.jpg
We feel like we hit this in the sense that there were way less bugs this time around. Ranked was never taken down for example, compared to the launch set where we had to bring ranked down a few times at the start of patches. That being said, we still have a ways to go in this area as there were quite a few bugs that persisted for too long.

Zyra plants getting targeted by spells, Kindred’s spell not being able to crit with Jeweled Gauntlet, Quicksilver blocking the damage on spells with CC in them… These are just a few of the things we let slip through for too many patches. Each individual bug is not massively impacting, but the combination of them all leave TFT still feeling a bit incomplete. We’re going to continue to improve.

Looking Forward
Now let's look at some of the new things we learned from releasing Rise of the Elements, including how some different approaches paid off and others didn’t.

Spell Impact and Excitement
09_Spell_Impact_and_Excitement.jpg
One thing that felt like a bit of a downgrade from the launch set was that many of our spells were less exciting and impactful. The best example to illustrate this is Sejuani compared to Malphite. Both serve a very similar purpose (frontline tanks with a big AoE CC move), but Sejuani’s spell had much better anticipation as it was cast and a much clearer impact… and that’s just one example.

In the launch set, champions like Karthus, Cho’Gath, Kennen, Garen, Blitzcrank, Lissandra, and many more had very high impact spells that were exciting when they were cast. Compare that to Syndra, Master Yi, Nautilus, Azir, and others that did similar things but in a way that was harder to appreciate and get excited by. This led to the game being much less exciting to spectate.

With the next set, expect to see the return of many high-impact and exciting spells and a more exciting viewer experience.

Combat Clarity
10_Combat_Clarity.jpg
A similar topic but it’s worth its own section. There were quite a few changes and champions that ended up making combat a lot harder to follow. Summoners were the biggest culprit here, as filling the board with Zyra plants and their projectiles, Malzahar minions, hard-to-see Azir soldiers (and more) led to a very busy board that often became almost impossible to track.

In addition, we had quite a few invisible spells and effects that were hard to keep up with. The Berserker cleave was just one kind of “invisible AoE damage” that you had to trust was happening, but it was hard to track and be excited abo

ut. There were also Syndra orbs and Taliyah spells with no travel time, Yasuo and Kha'Zix moving around the map quickly, tiny Sivir boomerangs, and more. Expect to see a push for more visible and appreciable spells in the next set.

Champion Balance and Design… Again
11_Champion_Design.jpg
There’s a lot to go into here as this could be its own article. Let’s see if we can get through some of the key points.

The balance of spell power and stats relative to Star Level is in a much better spot: We made some big plays in RotE regarding this: We removed stats from 3-stars, we put MASSIVE amounts of spell power into four and five cost 3-stars, and we introduced item star scaling. This accomplished things we felt improved the game, such as opening more possible win conditions, increasing satisfaction when upgrades were achieved, and preventing the game from feeling too solved. But we still have room to improve. Currently it feels like 1-star units are too weak to include in armies after the early stages, so we’ll be continuing these kinds of adjustments in TFT: Galaxies.

One and two cost champs were a bust this set: With a few exceptions (3-star Kog and Vayne come to mind) you couldn’t really consider viable late game options with one and two cost champions. They merely existed to act as trait bodies instead of having their own win conditions and fantasies. Compare that to the launch set which had Lucian, Lissandra, Zed, and more. We need to get more one and two cost champs to be playable in the end game, so expect to see a big push to make that happen.

Creative but balanceable spell design is tough: Is something like Rise of the Elements Zed good for the game? He’s a super exciting five-cost champion who made some awesome moments (All-stars Zed vs Sivir is still an amazing highlight), but he was also very feast or famine. Zed was hard to use and often underpowered UNLESS you got the right items, in which case he became an unstoppable force. GA/Redemption/Dragon’s Claw Zed in particular was a very powerful and unintuitive build. Despite all this, we think it’s important to keep pushing the envelope with creative spells that push the genre and game into new possibilities. So expect to see more of these kinds of unique spells, with a big focus on how to do so while also keeping them healthy for the game.

And that’s just scratching the surface. There’s more we could talk about, but for now expect to see improved champ and spell design in the next set, with more satisfying carries across the cost spectrum.

Major Vs Minor Traits
12_Major_Minor_Traits.jpg
For context here, a major trait is one that allows you to stack a lot of the same thing (6 Inferno, 6 Light, 6 Berserker, etc.) and minor trait is either smaller traits (like Mountain) or when you don’t go deep on a major trait (a 3 Mage, 3 Inferno, 3 Summoner comp, for example).

At the start of Rise of the Elements, none of the major trait comps were powerful enough to play at the end game (except maybe Light). Using Mage as an example, it was better to take the powerful mages with powerful traits that’d buff the primary carry (Brand, Vlad, and Syndra to get Ocean and Mage) and ignore the others so you could maximize your trait connections. This was really fun for our more clever and connected players, but also made chasing things like 9 Inferno unsatisfying. So over the course of the set, we made corrections to things like Inferno, Berserker, and Mage to make them more viable.

Unfortunately we swung too hard in the other direction. By the end of the set, it was mostly about the 6-piece trait options, and things like 3 Berserker or 3 Mage weren’t really seen. Our goal is for major-trait-focused comps to be a totally viable option, but in an optimal set up they should be about 95% of the power of a more creative comp using many Minor traits, as those are more difficult to put together. Expect us to be balancing and designing the traits next set to try to meet this goal and give more creative branching options.

The Spatula
13_Golden_Spatula.jpg
With both the launch set and Rise of the Elements, we saw metas that were dominated by getting a key Spatula and using that to 1) make a champ that isn’t normally a trait become that trait, and 2) accelerate to a more difficult-to-get comps. Void-Assassin Kassadin from the launch set and “blender” Nocturne and Azir from RotE were the most notorious. As players learned how to optimize their economy and player damage to maximize the chances of getting these comps, it became clear that this wasn’t really what we intended when we designed the Spatula items.

The Spatula was designed to be a very rare item that opened up new options if you were lucky enough to get one. But frankly it was showing up in the carousel way too often, especially early on. So in 10.3 we did a test to see what happened if we took Spatula off the carousel. The results have been positive for the most part, but we think the best solution requires more finesse. We want to maintain that the Spatula isn’t something you can count on, but rather something you have to adapt to when it shows up.

In the next set, expect to see Spatula back on the carousel, but in a much more controlled and… unique ways. We look forward to seeing some of your reactions to what is possible.

Other Thoughts
14_Ranked_TFT.jpg
Of course there’s more we can talk about, but this is already a very long article, so here’s a couple final quick points.

Ranked being off for the first patch and the ranked reset are both experiences we can improve on for TFT: Galaxies. Being stuck in Bronze while playing against Diamond or higher players made the climb way too difficult early, so expect to see changes there. And ranked will be available right away.

Finally, gold inflation is a bit out of hand. Having enough gold to buy all your first shops takes all the interesting decision making out of the game, and having 50 gold by Krugs with little effort allowed you to snowball the game and increase the pace of the match to speeds faster than we’d like. We’ll be making some big swings at gold inflation in the next set.

The End
And with that, Rise of the Elements is coming to an end. On behalf of the whole TFT development team, thank you for playing and enjoying the game. As we continue to do our best to make TFT even more fun, please keep giving us feedback on what you want to see. Your passion for the game inspires us to keep moving forward. Good luck in your ranked climb, and we’ll see you for the next set: Galaxies.
Hey everyone! Cody “Riot Codebear” Germain here, Product Lead for Competitive Gameplay.

Back in January, we started a conversation around improving ranked for 2020. Today we’d like to run through our big goals, how we’re planning to meet those goals, and share where we’re going with our next steps.

GOALS
Over the past year we’ve been collecting your feedback to help us build clear goals for a more competitive, transparent and rewarding ranked system in League of Legends.

Specifically, here are the areas you called out:

Improve queue matchmaking quality without compromising queue time and availability.
Improve transparency around ranked and matchmaking systems.
Improve progression satisfaction and skill expression in our systems.
Make rewards more recognizable and relevant for time spent in League.
Players can play with, and find, others they want to play with.
ALMOST HERE: MATCHMAKING
We're starting with the first goal, which covers matchmaking. We’ve all been in games where we feel like we’re at a disadvantage from the start. We want to take a look under the hood of our matchmaking system and make sure that the current system is balancing player matches out the gate to the best of its ability.

Our first two ranked matchmaking improvements are in testing and nearly ready for launch. Expect the following features within the next few patches:

Autofill Balance - As announced in Season Start, these updates aim to balance the number of autofilled players on each team.
Duo Balance - This update aims to balance the number of premades on each team.
Given the sensitivity of matchmaking quality and the impact it has on players, we’ll be constantly tuning these features behind the scenes as necessary. Once they've been live for a while, we'll circle back and let you know how they performed—potentially alongside a status update on...

IN DEVELOPMENT: NEW AND AUTOFILLED PLAYER ADJUSTMENTS
There are a couple standout areas where our matchmaking service can be improved to more accurately assess skill level. We've begun exploring system improvements to better handle them.

New Account Seeding - For players entering ranked for the first time, we think we can better identify true skill level by looking more holistically at their playstyle. 
Position Informed Autofill - Though our current system does not specifically measure you against all potential positions, we do understand that position proficiency has a significant impact on the game. We’re balancing the number of autofills on each team, but we would also like to balance the positions autofilled if we can. We think there are small adjustments that we can make without putting risk on areas of the system that are already working well.
THE SECOND HALF OF 2020 AND PRESEASON
Past the four specific improvements above, we’re also deeply investigating opportunities to fix some more complex pain points. The products of those investigations will be coming later in the year (anything big will wait for preseason), but expect updates as we go. Here's where we’re working:

Game Ruining Behavior - We’re attempting to develop better ways of dealing with disruptive behavior. Examples include better detection and punishment for behaviors like intentionally feeding, AFKing, win trading, and griefing, in addition to giving more frequent feedback when we’ve taken action on unsportsmanlike behavior you reported.
Rank and Matchmaking Rating (MMR) Transparency - The hidden relation between player’s visible ranks and matchmaking rating has been causing confusion and frustration ever since the tier system launched years ago. We’d like to provide more clarity to players around their rank and updates to where we can fix the disconnect in meaningful ways.
Promotion Series - We know that too many promos have become a source of frustration. We're seriously examining the current promotion system and will be making changes to shift the role it plays in our competitive ecosystem.
Flex Queue and Organization - Hovering somewhere between a social competitive queue for groups and a quasi-competitive queue for those looking to try out some new things, it's unclear exactly what Flex is supposed to be best at. We’re taking an immediate look at loosening up restrictions for group formation to make it easier to play with your friends, and how we can tie Flex to the greater competitive ecosystem.
WHAT SHOULD YOU EXPECT NEXT?
The Competitive Gameplay team is dedicated to making League the most rewarding and competitive experience out there and we’ve got a lot of work ahead of us. As we do, please keep the feedback and criticisms coming. Many of the changes we're working on are frankly overdue, and we want to make up for lost time by being as attentive and responsive as possible as our updates roll out through the year.

You’ll be hearing from us again in a few weeks once we've got results to report for autofill and premade balance. See you on the Rift!
Last week we introduced Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies and its new mechanic. This week we'll talk about a few of the teams that will be inhabiting these galaxies, how they work, and where they fit within the set. Hopefully this gets your galaxy brains going, because ultimately it will be up to you to chart your own course, discover new compositions, and achieve victory.

What We Learned From Rise of the Elements
In Rise of the Elements, we got a lot more information on what makes a satisfying composition. Some things went well, for example: the ability to pivot to things like Mystic to counter specific enemies, and the ability to combine traits in interesting ways to make a powerful carry like Kindred with Inferno and Shadow. Other things didn't go so well: A few comps felt like you had to go the full 6 or they weren’t worth pursuing (Berserker), or the opposite where 6 was never worth pursuing (Mage in the first half of the set). We also need to make sure that the compositions have satisfying carries with really satisfying spells.

We’re taking these learning forward moving into Galaxies. Let’s start by introducing a handful of the champions and traits you’ll be using and show some example compositions you can make.

Star Guardians
First, one of our more straight-forward compositions: Star Guardian. It uses all 6 of the Star Guardians as a base, and then can expand into a few different compositions. The trait gives mana to all the Star Guardians each time one casts a spell, so these will be very caster-heavy comps.

StarGuardian_v3.png
Final Composition Example: 6 Star Guardian, 4 Sorcerer

Trait Effect: Whenever a Star Guardian casts their spell, distribute (3) 20 mana (6) 30 mana among all the other Star Guardians.
Poppy - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Vanguard): Tanky Frontliner
Zoe - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged CC
Ahri - Tier 2 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Neeko - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Protector): AOE CC
Syndra - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Soraka - Tier 4 (Star Guardian/Mystic): Team Healing
Sorcerer: All allies gain (2) +15% (4) +40% (6) +120% increased Spell Power
Annie - Tier 2 (Mech Pilot/Sorcerer): Frontline Spell Damage
How it works: Arguably the most stable version of the Star Guardian comp, it can be achieved at Level 7 and gives your whole team 40% spell power to boost their constant spell spam. Poppy and Annie provide a nice front line, Neeko CCs, while Ahri and Syndra do massive amounts of damage.

Why it works: We believe it's important that every set has a few compositions that are pretty easy to understand and put together. Less experienced players can buy all the Star Guardians and still do very well. You’re going to be in a pretty good spot if you get them all, which is a core skill to understand.

That being said, there’s more depth to the Star Guardian Origin. You can go Protector if you need more front line, you can pivot into Mystics if there’s too much spell damage, and you can even get more creative since Tear of the Goddess and Spatula merge to make a new item that can turn any champion into a Star Guardian! Our favorite so far has been Star Guardian Vel’Koz.

Cybernetic
For the next example, let’s look at new origin that has a pretty straight-forward bonus, but a really unique requirement to activate it: Cybernetic. This origin is flexible—you can splash at 3 or try to go deep for all 6.

Blademaster_v3.png
Final Composition Example: 6 Blademaster, 3 Cybernetic

Trait Effect: Cybernetic champions with an item equipped gain (3) 300 health & 30 attack damage (6) 800 health & 80 attack damage.
Leona - Tier 1 (Cybernetic/Vanguard): Tanky frontliner
Fiora - Tier 1 (Cybernetic/Blademaster): Fragile Melee DPS
Irelia - Tier 4 (Cybernetic/Mana-Reaver/Blademaster): Melee DPS
Blademaster: Blademasters have a (3) 25% (6) 50% chance on hit to attack two extra times.
Xayah - Tier 1 (Celestial/Blademaster): Ranged DPS
Shen - Tier 2 (Chrono/Blademaster): Tanky frontliner
Yasuo - Tier 2 (Rebel/Blademaster): Melee DPS
Kayle - Tier 4 (Valkyrie/Blademaster): Ranged DPS
How it works: A comp that’s all about empowering Irelia to be a massive carry, Cybernetic gives health and attack damage if the champ has at least one item on them. You can put items on Leona and Fiora to power them up and keep them useful all game, and then in the late game, load up Irelia to be your major item carrier. Backed up by 6 Blademaster (yes it's back with some slight adjustments), she’ll be a monster.

Why it works: Cybernetic opens up a new option that we haven't seen before, in that you need to spread out your items to maximize the benefit. The trait itself is VERY strong if you’re willing to put one item on each champion, so it becomes a fun puzzle to figure out which items get you the best return. Cybernetic is also a much more flexible origin, as it has a LOT of options on how to branch out. We expect it to be one of the more popular three-piece Origins.

Mech-Pilot
Lastly, we want to share the one I think most of us are the most excited about. When we first pitched the Galaxies theme, we all jumped at the chance to do this, so let me be the first to introduce you to the Mech-Pilot Origin.

MechPilot_v3.png
Final Composition: 3 Mech-Pilot, 4 Sorcerer, 3 Star Guardian, 2 Demolitionist

Mech-Pilot: (3) At the start of combat, three Mech-Pilot champs are merged into a Super Mech until it dies.
Annie - Tier 2 (Mech Pilot/Sorcerer): Frontline Spell Damage
Rumble - Tier 3 (Mech Pilot/Demolitionist): Frontline Spell Damage
Fizz - Tier 4 (Mech Pilot/Infiltrator): Backline CC & Damage
Demolitionist: (2) Demolitionist’s spells stun for 2.5 seconds.
Ziggs - Tier 1 (Rebel/Demolitionist): Ranged Spell Damage
Sorcerer: All allies gain (2) +15% (4) +40% (6) +120% increased Spell Power
Zoe - Tier 1 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged CC spell
Ahri - Tier 2 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
Syndra - Tier 3 (Star Guardian/Sorcerer): Ranged Spell Damage
How it works: With this comp, Annie, Rumble, and Fizz combine together into a Super-Mech! This big tanky mech shares traits and stats from the pilots, so the higher star level they are, the stronger your mech. The super mech can also use up to three items, which makes for an interesting puzzle on how you itemize it. Then by including 4 sorcerers, your mech gains +40% spell power, and when your mech casts his giant AOE spell, it stuns everyone it hits for 2.5 seconds!

SuperMecha_v3.png
Why it works: From a thematic standpoint, we’re really excited to see a giant mech and the destruction it can cause. From a gameplay standpoint… we’re REALLY excited to be able to see a giant mech and the destruction it can cause! It’ll also be fun to see which items and traits synergize best with the mech. It’s spell is REALLY big, but it’s also susceptible to CC. All of the different possibilities should lead to some really cool highlights!

Welp, That's All For Now!
Later this week we’ll be doing a deep-dive into what we learned from Rise of the Elements (like we did after Set 1), and then during the first week of March, we'll reveal the rest of Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies.
When we announced Eternals last year, we were really excited to bring champion-specific stat-trackers to League of Legends. Eternals introduced more reasons to play your favorite champs, new ways to flex on your foes, and a novel form of progression that made the game more fun. However, it was clear from your feedback after our PBE reveal that we missed the mark in a few key areas.

As a result, we made the call to delay our launch while we took a step back and identified three ways to make Eternals a better experience:

Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
Before we get into specifics on how we’re addressing these goals, let’s cover the basics: What are Eternals? And why are we excited about them?

What Are Eternals?
In a nutshell, Eternals are champion-specific stat-trackers that capture, celebrate, and flex your moments of glory in and out of game.

Check out this video for the TL;DR:


At launch, there will be two Eternals series available: a Starter Series (more on this later) and Series 1. Each series contains a set of three Eternals per champion, and we’ll release more over time as we see what stats players enjoy tracking.

02_Eternals_Progression_Lee_Sin_v2.jpg

Stats begin tracking as soon as you unlock them. When you pass a milestone, like 50 Bicycle Kicks on Lee Sin, a callout pops up in game that all players can see to celebrate the moment.

Note: The in-game callout is smaller than what’s represented here!


Eternals are also visible to other players alongside Champion Mastery in your Player Showcase. The Player Showcase is visible in two places: on the back of your champion card in the loading screen and on your opponent’s death screen after you kill them or assist in their death. The first set of Eternals you unlock for each champion are featured automatically, but you can customize which Eternals you want to feature. If you don’t have any Eternals, no problem, we’ll still show off your Champion Mastery just like on the loading screen.

Here’s how your featured Eternals look on the back of your champion card:

04_Eternals_Loading_Screen_Champion_Card_v2.jpg

And finally, here’s what your enemy will see when you kill or assist in killing them:


A set can contain two types of Eternals, Common and Unique:

Common Eternals track stats that aren’t specific to any one champion.
For example, Takedowns and Epic Monsters Killed.
Unique Eternals track unique stats that are specific to a champion.
For example, “Stun Sniper” for Ashe tracks how many times you’ve landed an ultra long-range ultimate.
If you're curious, you can see the full list of Unique Eternals for all champions here.

The price of each set is determined by how many Common or Unique Eternals it has. Common Eternals add 75 RP each, while Unique Eternals add 200 RP each.

For example, Series 1 contains sets with 3 Uniques and will cost 600 RP per champ, while a hypothetical future set with 2 Commons and 1 Unique would cost 350 RP.

06_Common_vs_Unique_Eternals_v2.jpg

Common vs. Unique Eternals


Eternals also have exclusive unlockable perks you can earn by hitting milestones within a series. Hit 5 milestones on a single Eternal, and you’ll start tracking your Personal Best for that stat. Beat your Personal Best in a match, and you’ll get a special milestone callout to show it off to other players in game!

Additionally, if you hit 15 milestones across any of the Eternals in a set, you’ll upgrade your Mastery Emote with an exclusive fiery effect. You can upgrade your Mastery Emote multiple times, so the more sets you complete, the cooler your mastery emote will look for that champion.


Now that we’ve explained how Eternals work, let’s talk about how your feedback helped make Eternals better.

What Did We Change (and Why)?
Based on your PBE feedback, we identified three ways to make Eternals a better experience:

Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
Goal 1: Create more skill-expressive and exciting stats to track
Many of you told us our first series of Eternals wasn’t exciting enough and didn’t let you show off your skill in the ways you wanted. To address this, we've added two more Unique Eternals per champion to their launch sets, with an emphasis on capturing the high moments unique to each champion. Here’s an example of how one champion’s set evolved to be more skill expressive based on this feedback:

Vladimir’s Original Series 1 Set:

Multiple (2+) enemy champions hit by Hemoplague (R)
Duration of enemy champions slowed by abilities, items, and runes
Enemy champions killed
Vladimir’s New Series 1 Set:

Multiple (2+) enemy champions hit by Hemoplague (R)
Transfusions (Q) empowered by Crimson Rush (QP) used on enemy champions
Skillshot missiles dodged with Sanguine Pool (W)

We also took some time during development to post our designs for all 435 of the new unique Eternals to get players’ feedback on where we were headed. It was really fun to work directly with you on designs, and it ultimately resulted in a bunch of modifications to the launch series. Here are a few more examples of the changes we made based directly on your feedback:

Anivia’s “Kills to enemies with Glacial Storm (R)” was removed and replaced with “Number of champions knocked aside by Crystallize (W)”
Poppy’s “Number of bucklers thrown with Iron Ambassador (P)” was changed to “Amount of damage blocked by Iron Ambassador’s (P) shield”
Lulu’s “Number of champions knocked up by Wild Growth (R)” was changed to “Number of times 2+ enemy champions have been knocked up by Wild Growth (R)”
There were so many great ideas that you shared with us during our discussions that we couldn’t fit into our initial release, so we’re really looking forward to making them for future series. In the meantime, let us know what other top moments about playing your favorite champion you’d want to track and flex with Eternals. They could make their way into the next series!

Goal 2: Offer ways to earn Eternals without spending RP
This one comes in two parts: what we’re doing immediately at launch and what we’re doing in the months following release. Let’s talk about what we’re doing at launch first.

We think League will be a lot more fun for everyone if more players have access to Eternals, so we’ve created a Starter Series for every champion in the game.

Sets in the Starter Series are unlocked per champion, and are permanently available for 2500 Blue Essence or 225 RP. The Starter Series features the following Common Eternals:

Takedowns (kills + assists)
Structures Destroyed (turrets and inhibitors)
Epic Monsters Killed (Baron, dragons, and Rift Heralds)
We specifically chose these stats because they encourage teamplay and are applicable to all champions in the game. You won’t need to last hit a turret or dragon to get credit for these, so long as you participate in taking the objective or kill, your stats will go up.


Sets in the Starter Series behave just like any other set: hitting 15 milestones across any of the Eternals in a Starter Series set will upgrade your Mastery Emote. You can also unlock Personal Best for all of these stats by hitting milestone 5 on each of them.

In addition to the Starter Series, we’ll also be releasing Eternal Capsules as an additional free reward in Ranked Splits.

Eternal Capsules contain Orange Essence and two random Set Shards, which behave similarly to Skin Shards. A Set Shard will unlock an Eternals set for a specific champion when upgraded with Orange Essence. You’ll also be able to disenchant unwanted Set Shards for Orange Essence if you so choose.

With these updates, players will have multiple ways to unlock Eternals without spending RP. We’ll have more to share on Eternal Capsules and Set Shards after launch.

Goal 3: Provide discounts for players with broad champion pools
When we announced Eternals, we got lots of feedback saying that players with large champion pools didn’t have a great way to get Eternals for their entire roster without breaking the bank. Originally, we anticipated players would only unlock Eternals for one or two champs, but we realized we could do much better for players who want Eternals on every champion (or a whole lot of ‘em).

So at launch, you can grab a Series Pass that instantly unlocks all the Eternals in a Series for every champion at a massive discount.

You’ll have two options to unlock Eternals:

Unlock sets one champion at a time if you only care about your mains. This is the best option if you only want Eternals on a couple champions.
For players who want it all, you can pick up a Series Pass that instantly unlocks all Eternals in a particular Series for all champions, forever.
That means that if you buy the Series 1 Pass, you’ll get all Series 1 Eternals for every champ that currently exists and all new champs we release in the future.

The Series 1 Pass will be priced at 5850 RP, which is more than a 90% discount compared to buying individually. The Series Pass is also available for the Starter Series, so if you want to get the Starter Series for every champ in the game using Blue Essence in a single purchase, you can do that with an even deeper discount. The Starter Series Pass will be available for 14750 Blue Essence or 1350 RP.

We’re really excited about all of these changes to Eternals, and can’t wait to see how high you push all of your stats in the years to come. Thank you so much for all of the feedback on Eternals thus far, and be sure to let us know if you have any more ideas on how we can continue to improve. Also, hit up our FAQ if you still have questions about how certain parts of Eternals work or if you want to know more about the lore behind them.

See you on the Rift!
Next month we'll be saying a fond farewell to Teamfight Tactics: Rise of the Elements and giving a warm welcome to Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies. The new set places you in the midst of a League universe-spanning intergalactic war bringing new champions, traits, skins, boards, Little Legends, and a new set-wide mechanic. We'll be sharing more about the upcoming stuff over the next few weeks. Today, we're starting with the new set mechanic for TFT: Galaxies.

But First, Let's Talk About Elemental Hexes
Before we get there though, let's talk about the Elemental Hex system. We added a set mechanic to Rise of the Elements because we wanted to increase replayability, add variance to every game, and force players to continuously adapt the way they played. We hoped that dealing with a different core element every game meant that the same composition wasn’t always going to be the best option. Additionally, with hexes being in different spots each game, it wouldn’t always be clear the best way to utilize them.

Overall we're happy with how the Elemental Hex system turned out, especially with the way Qiyana integrates with the system and the way it allows for new builds across games. Mountain games have stronger front lines and the earlier appearance of the Mountain trait. Ocean games allow for quicker spell casts and Shojin states. Cloud games give spell casters a slight edge, and Inferno games are more explosive than normal. Every game feels a little bit different, which is what we wanted.

Rise_of_the_Elements.jpg
That being said, it's not perfect and we’re definitely taking a few learnings going forward. The first one is clarity issues. The hexes use the item system, and while we intended for that to be an interesting strategic trade-off, it's also very unclear (especially for new players) what benefits your champions are getting. We were also a bit conservative with the hexes’ power level. They're such a light touch to the game that it’s often ideal to simply ignore the mechanic for better positioning. Ideally, game mechanics with that level of visibility and mind share require you to interact with them in clever ways; Elemental Hexes aren't quite hitting that bar right now.

Elemental Hexes will be leaving TFT with Rise of the Elements, and we'll be moving forward with a new set mechanic for Galaxies.

Galaxies Within Galaxies
We're calling the set mechanic for Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies... "Galaxies." Yes, we're very creative. Here’s how it works: In addition to games with normal rulesets, some games of TFT will take you to a different galaxy where the rules are just a bit different.

For example, one Galaxy you might travel to is the Neekoverse Galaxy, where everyone starts with two Neeko’s Help items ready to go. With everyone having this advantage, it becomes about making strategic decisions around when and how to use those Neekos. Do you use them early on a powerful three-cost or four-cost to start win streaking? Do you chase a powerful 3-star that might normally be too hard to achieve? Or do you hold out for that late game 2-star five-cost champ?

Star_Guardian_Placeholder_Image.jpg

Another Galaxy you might travel to is the "4-cost-carousel" Galaxy (the name is a work in progress), where the first carousel is entirely four-cost champions. This brings a new set of questions: Should you build around that champion? Or are you going to sell it for an early gold spike? A four-cost with the right component is strong from the start, but four additional gold could enable multiple 2-star champions right out of the gate.

You won’t know which Galaxy you’re playing in until the game starts, so your ability to adapt is going to be put to the test. And there's one more thing: New Galaxies will open up gradually as the set goes on. So at launch you’re very likely to have a normal game as only one or two Galaxies will be active, but by the end of the set, there may be as many as 10 different Galaxies (…and some may go away as well).

The universe is vast and there’s a lot to explore out there!

Why Though?
We had a few goals for Galaxies. First, we wanted something that increased variance and required more adaptability. TFT is at its best when you can’t just look up a guide and know the best way to play, but rather have to adapt to what’s going on in game. So coming up with a set mechanic that made that happen was important.

Second, we wanted as clear of a set mechanic as possible. As mentioned, Elemental Hexes were a pretty simple mechanic, but with some confusion around its rules. For Galaxies we wanted something that would be clear right off the bat, so that even if it was your first TFT game, you’d be able to understand what was going on.

Finally, we wanted something expandable. Elemental Hexes are great, but we were disappointed that we weren’t able to add additional hexes over the course of the set. Galaxies give us the opportunity to add new ones pretty frequently since they aren’t so ingrained into the set’s champions like Qiyana was. We’re excited to bring you some really unique Galaxies to explore over the next few months.

PROJECT_Placeholder_Image.jpg
How We'll Know If It's Working
As you load up into each game, you should be excited about the possibility of going to a different Galaxy, and when you get there, it should change how you approach the game in a unique and fun way. If we’re seeing different games on different galaxies play out in unique ways, then this will be a success.

We hope you have fun exploring the Galaxies, and we can’t wait for you to try them all! Tune in next week for a look at a few of the traits that will show up in Teamfight Tactics: Galaxies.
Disclaimer: This post is kinda tech-heavy and concerns anti-cheat tooling that won’t be exclusive to League of Legends. Other games (like Project A) will be protected by the referenced upgrade before LoL is.

In a partnered study lasting approximately 8 years and backed by $20 million in federal funding, leading scientists managed to chronologically place the invention of cheating somewhere between 3.5 billion BCE and November 20th, 1985. While its precise origin remains indeterminate, one reality has become accepted as established fact: Cheaters gonna cheat.

Over the last two decades, the development of cheats and the technology to prevent them have escalated from the honorable fight for control of game client memory into methods that attempt to modify the underlying operating system—or even the hardware—of a cheater’s machine. These techniques can compromise an anti-cheat’s ability to retrieve good data, and that effect is compounded if that anti-cheat has to run in user-mode.

What is user-mode?
It describes a privilege level within an operating system, specifically the most restrictive tier software can run at. Your web browser, your legitimate copy of WinRAR, and your favorite games all run in user-mode. Within it, an application cannot directly “see outside” of itself, and instead, code must generally rely on OS’ native APIs to read or write memory not within its own process. Or to wrap that up in a semi-intelligible metaphor: We (in user-mode) have to ask the kitchen (Microsoft Windows) what’s been added to our beef goulash (League of Legends).





Kernel_Drivers_Image.png




If you’ve ever heard some stable genius hit you with a “lol my cheat is ring 0 undetected,” this is what they were referring to right before they were banned.



In the last few years, cheat developers have started to leverage vulnerabilities or corrupt Windows’ signing verification to run their applications (or portions of them) at the kernel level. The problem here arises from the fact that code executing in kernel-mode can hook the very system calls we would rely on to retrieve our data, modifying the results to appear legitimate in a way we might have difficulty detecting. We’ve even seen specialized hardware utilizing DMA1 to read and process system memory—a vector that, done perfectly, could be undetectable2 from user-mode.

Now, while most players might find the idea of a corrupted Windows installation objectionable, a disturbing number of cheaters have shown themselves to be downright enthusiastic about the opportunity to jump onto some guy’s botnet in exchange for the ability to orbwalk. So, an abundance of cheats currently run at a higher privilege level than our anti-cheat does. To put that in the terms of our immaculate kitchen analogy: When we ask the head chef if our goulash ingredients are actually farm-to-table, some random dude in a toque convinces restaurant management that he’s “got this,” and then replies to our request with a “sure my guy, dig in.”

1 DMA here refers to “Direct Memory Access,” a method by which a piece of hardware could, as you’ve probably suspected, directly access memory, windows API not required. Some of the more mature cheating communities have used it to rebroadcast memory to a separate computer for later processing and ESP.

2 We straight hired the guy that developed the technique to detect it.

Why are you telling me this?
Well historically, your favorite anti-cheat team has been forced to play this game from the user-level, effectively giving cheaters a much-needed, twelve-stroke handicap. We haven’t needed both arms yet, primarily because we have the advantage of steady paychecks and the lack of strict bedtimes at our immediate disposal. But as much as we might like the idea of an ever-escalating appsec war with teenagers, we’re now entering a multi-game universe where linear time and sleep deficits will make this particular strategy untenable.

This is why some of Riot’s future titles will be protected by a kernel driver.

I think I’m going to panic?
There are several reasons you should absolutely not do that.

Stress can lead to excess hair loss, and I don’t want your head to get cold.
This isn’t giving us any surveillance capability we didn’t already have. If we cared about grandma’s secret recipe for the perfect Christmas casserole, we’d find no issue in obtaining it strictly from user-mode and then selling it to The Food Network. The purpose of this upgrade is to monitor system state for integrity (so we can trust our data) and to make it harder for cheaters to tamper with our games (so you can’t blame aimbots for personal failure).
This isn’t even news. Several third party anti-cheat systems—like EasyAntiCheat, Battleye, and Xigncode3—are already utilizing a kernel driver to protect your favorite AAA games. We’re just installing our own sous-chef to the Windows kitchen, so that when we hit em with a “where’s the beef,” we know we’re getting an honest answer.
It will be significantly harder to create undetected cheats: protecting you from aimbots, protecting us from Reddit, and protecting cheaters from themselves.
We believe anti-cheat is one of the most important components of an online multiplayer game, and we want you to play in a world where you never have to doubt the abilities of your opponent. There is no cure for cheat fever, but we will continue to do anything it takes to bring you the best competitive experience possible.

Transmission complete, but I’ll be returning in approximately four megaseconds to tell you about bots in your ARAMs, a follow-up to our award-winning novella, “Removing Cheaters from League.
Compared to some of our recent champs, Sett’s a pretty straightforward champion to play—and so was his development process. “B-But Rito-sama, does this mean you don’t notice your half-breed bastard son as much as his edgier cousins like Kayn and Aphelios?” Nope, we love our chad vastaya a lot. And even though Sett snowballed into reality, he still required a ton of work.

Wipe that UwU from your face—here’s the story of League’s smokin’ hot new juggernaut.

Come on and Slam
“The last time we made a traditional juggernaut for top lane was Darius,” explains associate game designer Glenn “Riot Twin Enso” Anderson. “We talked about what we wanted to do for our next juggernaut and landed on an easy-to-learn kit with a broadly appealing character. Basically someone that a lot of players would like. And we just went from there.”

League didn’t have a champion who literally grabbed their opponents and threw them around like a ragdoll, and the team was excited to explore a grappler’s playstyle. Inspired by the idea of a flashy-move fighter who would literally 1v9 anyone, concept art lead Gem “Lonewingy” Lim started to draw.

Sett’s early designs focused on a four-armed silhouette
Sett’s early designs focused on a four-armed silhouette

Lonewingy created four early concepts for Sett. The first was a four-armed Targonian Aspect of Might. (All the better to grapple with, my dear.) The next was a Piltovan robot butler, which became a hit with the design team.

“He’s a proper butler robot guy,” laughs Lonewingy. “He’s this very preppy, dapper dude who can, you know, make a souffle and be gentle. But he’ll also punch you to death.”

The third scrapped design was a Darkin behemoth… or the chunky dinosaur, as the team lovingly nicknamed him.

And then there he was in all of his vastayan glory: Sett, the embodiment of a rough grappler. Mr. Kick-Your-Ass-And-Steal-Your-Girl. But there was one problem: The grappling part of his kit had some issues and needed to be reconsidered.

“There were some design issues with having a champion physically grab and move another champion elsewhere,” senior game designer Bryan “Riot Axes” explains. “It creates a lot of gameplay clarity problems, can be frustrating for players, and it’s a big tax on resources to animate all of those grappling abilities.”

In order to alleviate some of the issues with Sett’s grappling, Riot Axes refocused the kit on straight out brawling… with a twist.

“When Riot Axes transferred the champion’s design to me, he stressed Sett’s design hooks,” says Riot Twin Enso. “Sett has a unique 1-2, 1-2 auto attack cadence, and he makes players rethink standard teamfight positioning.”

Sett can’t beat the shit out of you without getting closer
Sett can’t beat the shit out of you without getting closer

Most teamfights are played front-to-back, with the exception of an assassin flanking to one-shot your carry. Juggernauts’ beefy builds and kits flourish in that style, and if you’re someone who enjoys a good ol’ front-to-back teamfight, Sett wants to know your location.

Sett laughs at standard teamfight positioning. He wants to absorb tons of damage so he can unleash his full power by grabbing that beefcake frontline and body slamming them into the squishies they’re supposed to protect. It’s where he’s best, and it’s the exact type of fight he wants.

But because Sett went from fully-fledged grappler to Punchy McPuncherboy, his four-armed silhouette no longer made as much sense.

Wolverine vs. Honey Badger, Who Would Win?
“Now that Sett no longer grappled and instead relied more on punching, I needed to rethink his character design,” explains Lonewingy. This meant it was back to the drawing board for League’s newest husbando.

The team decided to go with a more standard two-armed design (perfect for haymakers), but they soon realized there might be a new issue: Sett just looked like some random guy, and that wouldn’t do for Ionia’s very own one two punch man.

Mecha Kingdom Sett exploration
Mecha Kingdom Sett exploration

“Whenever we design a new champion we want them to have a unique silhouette or something that can carry over to skins so players know exactly who they’re looking at,” Lonewingy shares. “So we started exploring different types of fist weapons to give him something we could anchor to when we make skins.”

As a punchy boi, he needed something that’d feel intuitive to that style of combat, so they gave Sett a fist weapon. Which led the team to the obvious… wolverines and honey badgers.

“Vastaya are traditionally tied to animals. Xayah and Rakan are birds, Nami is a fish,” explains Lonewingy. “I wanted Sett’s brass knuckle to stylistically feel like his signature animal. I just didn’t know what animal that was yet, so I started to do some research.”

“According to the many ‘wolverine vs honey badger: who would win’ YouTube videos I watched, wolverines have a slight advantage when attacking,” laughs Longwingy.


“Honey badgers definitely have more defensive stats. We ended up going with the wolverine because Sett is a fighter and not a protector. But it was really close between the two!”

Life Ain’t Easy for a Champ Named Sett
“Riot Axes and Riot Twin Enso had created this champion who throws everything into every one of his punches, and Lonewingy drew this badass-looking guy, so I needed to start thinking about his story,” says senior writer John “JohnODyin” O’Bryan. “Because Sett had these big, visceral fighting moves and a tough look, it didn’t make sense for him to be a refined, dainty, upper cruster.”

05_Sett_studies
Ryan “Reav3” Mireles, Lead Producer of Champions Team, had a suggestion: What if Sett was a crime boss? With that idea, his story basically wrote itself. And Sett’s vastayan heritage gave the team the perfect chance to take a deeper look at Ionia, peeking directly into its seedy criminal underbelly.

“Ionia had been a world of exacts and extremes before Sett,” explains Lonewingy. “Zed’s evil, and Karma and Irelia are good. We didn’t have an Ionian champion who was just… grey.”

That led the team down the track of discovering what Ionia’s “grey” was.


“Pit fighting really appealed to us,” says JohnODyin. “It exemplifies how Noxian culture has influenced Ionia, and gave them an outlet for violence. Sett’s kinda the product of that.”

But when Sett’s father left to seek bigger and better fighting pits across Runeterra, Sett and his mother’s lives changed. They were cast out of their tribe and forced to live among the humans who were… less than welcoming of an outcast vastaya and her large half-breed son. It was this hatred that shaped his uncaring personality.

“Sett doesn’t give a f%$#,” laughs JohnODyin. “He cares about his mom and he cares about his money. If you’re not messing around with either of those, then you’re not even on his radar.”

But Sett really cares about his mom. Like, really, really cares about her. He even goes so far as to lie about where he gets his money to keep her hands clean and a roof over their heads (spoiler: it’s the fighting pits).

And just like that, the jacked juggernaut was complete. He had two arms, no tail, and hair that’d make any anime villain jealous; a ma he loves; a kit filled with flashy wrestling moves; and daddy issues. He was perfect.

“For a long time Reav3 kept calling Sett, Seth,” laughs Lonewingy. “We managed to convince him it was too real world and went with Sett instead.”
“For a long time Reav3 kept calling Sett, Seth,” laughs Lonewingy. “We managed to convince him it was too real world and went with Sett instead.”

… But even though his story was already written, the team couldn’t help but wonder what Sett’d be like if his father hadn’t left.

“He’d probably be a good boy going to college and finishing a degree so he could support his mom,” says Lonewingy.

“But don’t you think he’d go check out the pits anyway?” JohnODyin interjects. “Although he probably wouldn’t have had the desire to fight… ”

“Yeah, he picked up that path because of the hard life he lived with his mom,” agrees Riot Twin Enso.

“I guess I don’t really know where he’d be,” admits JohnODyin. “ But I do know he wouldn’t be Sett anymore—that’s for sure.”
Hey all, with the Player Choice Fiddlesticks VGU now in full production, we thought it’d be a good time to do a deep dive into our current progress. The team has some truly horrifying stuff planned for its release a little later this year, so this blog might not be for the faint of heart. We’ll be getting really nitty-gritty with some of Fiddle’s work-in-progress animations, VFX, modeling, and more, so consider this your final warning: spoilers, spooky stuff, and dense info lie ahead.

An Ancient Evil Takes Form
In case you missed the previous posts, our goal with updating Fiddlesticks is to transform it into the most terrifying champion in League of Legends.

As far as gameplay goes, we want Fiddle to be the iconic ambush champion, with a kit that’s centered around the concept of fear. This goes deeper than just a point-click status effect, which is staying on the kit. But beyond that, we’re giving Fiddle new mechanics that are built around its iconic Crowstorm. This includes giving Fiddlesticks more ways to stay hidden and find—or create—opportunities to ambush enemies. When a player succeeds at executing the perfect jump scare, we want to also make sure they’re in a powerful position to win the fight.

Experienced Fiddlesticks players will wreak mental havoc on their victims as they question what is real and what is a terrifying effigy.

Proxy idle animation from the previous dev blog—new versions are below!

During early story development, we brainstormed where the “new” Fiddlesticks could fall and what faction or race it might fill. Fiddle doesn’t really look like anything else in the game, so it could hypothetically be placed almost anywhere. And there’s that name: Fiddlesticks. A necromancer probably wouldn’t call their bloodthirsty new creation Fiddlesticks, nor would a warlock read from the grimoire of Dread Lord Fiddle In The Middle.

“Fiddlesticks” is a name a child would coin; something you might invoke around a campfire to scare your friends.

When we look at truly ancient champions like Ornn or Tahm Kench, they have hundreds or even thousands of origin stories and tales surrounding them. Fiddlesticks could easily fit in among them, having preyed on mankind for godless ages, so it would make sense that there would be nursery rhymes and storybook fables and old wive’s tales about a living scarecrow. Monster? Harvest deity? Eldritch artifact, controlled by some other person or creature? Instead of settling on one, Fiddle could invoke them all, an ancient malevolence with unclear origins, gone from the world long enough for warnings to become stories, stories to become myths, and myths to become simple children’s tales… until now.

As an utterly inhuman entity (regardless of what its true origins are), Fiddle lacks internal organs, a brain to think, or vocal chords to form sentences. Any type of voice it might have wouldn’t sound like a person, but rather a projection: Just as a scarecrow is the crude facsimile of a human being, its voice could be a crude mimicry of people it has come across/killed. We’re still super excited about this direction, and it’s something we want to implement for its VO.

Final Fiddlesticks Concept Art
Final Fiddlesticks Concept Art

And as for visuals… Well, Fiddlesticks is a demon who feeds on fear, so we wanted to create something that’d incite terror in those who stumble upon it in the dark.

Now for the new stuff! Let’s jump into how the Fiddlesticks team transformed the concept art into something playable in game. Keep in mind that all work shown below is still very work in progress!

Fabricating a Monstrosity
Step 1, step 2. EZPZ.
Step 1, step 2. EZPZ.

Jason “00Y00” Namgung, Character Artist: Modeling a character is two easy steps, you start with a sphere and then… final product. EZPZ.

On a more serious note, jumping into the Fiddle project, I was given an in-progress concept, and we had questions that needed answering. To name a few: How does its silhouette read in-game? How should it move? Are there any elements on the model that don’t work? How are the proportions of its body parts? To find those answers, I started out with creating a really quick and dirty proxy model just to get it into the game.

Proxy Model
Proxy Model

Once we finished all our testing and experimentation during pre-production, we moved into the production phase and really started building out the final high-poly model. A high-poly model is a higher polygon density model that we can digitally sculpt on (feels very similar to clay). I started replacing all the super simple, basic geometry pieces with the more complex mechanical pieces that Fiddle is made out of. This is the part where 3d artists normally go crazy on tiny detailing, but for League, it’s actually better for us to do really clean and simple sculpt with only big- and medium-detail shapes.

High-Poly Model
High-Poly Model

Once Fiddle’s high-poly model was finished, I went back to the refined proxy as the base for the final in-game model, just to save on time and sanity… I mean, efficiency. I come from a sculpting background and have less experience in painting, so rather than starting off from scratch, I used multiple maps baked from of the high-poly model such as the Normal, Ambient Occlusion, Curvature, and more to push the character’s textures further along. Then I throw it into a painting program and begin the “real” work of getting it to look good in League.

Work in Progress Fiddlesticks' Textures
Work in Progress Fiddlesticks' Textures

Just sit and paint, paint, and paint some more ’til it starts looking better. Still a work in progress!

Current Progress on Fiddle Model (Subject to Change)
Current Progress on Fiddle Model (Subject to Change)

Coming to a nightmare near you.

Rigging an Eldritch Puppet
Dawon “Riot WONY” Lee, Technical Artist: As a tech artist, I make the rig, which is comprised of bones and controllers in the model—the stuff that enables animators to move around specific parts of the model and bring the character to life.

Normally, when I set up champions, I consider how the character moves naturally. For example, Yuumi’s face rig can make natural and cute facial expressions, and Senna’s ghost cloak setup flows in a natural way. However, developing Fiddlesticks’ rig was different. When we started to set up Fiddlesticks, who’s basically a puppet, my goal was to create a setup that supports both unnatural and natural movements that feel similar to a demon or ghost.

The animator suggested putting an unnatural head shake into the animation when Fiddlesticks moves. I thought it was a really cool idea so I added a rig element that we call “jiggle” that helps animators create naturally flowing animation along a chain of joints. We usually use it for parts such as capes and tails. We haven’t used this function on champions’ head and jaw, so I wasn’t sure if it would work successfully. However, the results were exactly the unnatural head and jaw movements we wanted, making Fiddlesticks look eerie.

One of the biggest changes in the new concept of Fiddlesticks is a long right arm with big sharp claws to accentuate its spookiness. The animator wanted to create a walk animation to highlight its terrifying right arm where Fiddlesticks drags its sharp claws on the ground as it walks toward the enemy. Imagine in a horror movie, the enemy dragging his bloody weapon to the ground and walking toward the main character… super spooky.

I wanted to find the best way to make its arm look like a huge weapon and move in the same direction of its body, but to also make it look creepy and unnatural. A function called “Dragon Turn Tech” was set up on its right arm to make the arm follow its body naturally while also adding a creepy element to the movement. It may seem to be a minor change in animation, but it has a major impact and makes the animation look more realistic in game.


Bringing an Inanimate Object to Life
Luke “LukeHop” Hu, Animator: When I first saw its character design, I knew that animating Fiddlesticks wouldn’t be easy. Firstly, we need to figure out its character. Fiddlesticks is a mysterious ancient demon living in the body of a scarecrow. It’s a dangerous predator, so its poses and movements need to look a bit intimidating. At the same time, its body proportion is weird. Its right arm is long and heavy, and its legs are very slim and weak (especially with the little nail/fork feet), so its movements need to be a little unnatural and lack stability.


Another important thing I always kept in my mind was that Fiddle’s brain isn’t in its head, but in a cage in its chest. So its head can be treated as a decoration, since what’s really doing the “thinking” is the demon living inside the cage. This demon has no substance. But when it’s eager to hunt, you’ll see it try to break through the cage and reach its prey with two demon arms.


The concept of a scarecrow is also an important thing for Fiddlesticks, so you’ll often see Fiddle’s iconic “T-pose” during its idle, complete with a lantern swinging animation.


Visualizing an Ancient Evil
Jason “Riot Lanky Tree” Chisolm, VFX Artist: Green is oftentimes not a very terrifying color unless you’re from the Shadow Isles (then it’s horrifying). Fiddlesticks, however, isn’t a shadowy entity from a far-off island. It’s a demonic entity ready to appear when you least expect it, and Fiddle needed a new color palette to reinforce this. As some players noticed when we revealed the new concept, there’s a new color palette made up of mostly reds and blacks on the scythe, and this carries over into the VFX. We went with red and black to make the demonic origin even more apparent, but color is only one of the many aspects that make up a champion’s VFX.

After the colors were decided, it was time to focus on the shapes and textures that would be utilized throughout the kit. Shape plays a huge role in creating iconic VFX for champions. To contrast Fiddle’s newer, more mechanical appearance and to allude more to the demonic entity within, I wanted to create a mix of ambiguous organic shapes, soft wispy shapes, and sharp dangerous ones.


Even with these changes, there were still core parts of Fiddlesticks’ previous identity we wanted to keep and enhance. Let’s take a look at Crowstorm. Crowstorm is a pretty unique ability—it takes up a lot of screen space, lasts for a while, moves with Fiddlesticks, and Fiddle can cast other abilities while it’s active. Plus, the name “Crowstorm” conjures up an image of an intense flurry of feathers, dark wind, and demonic energy. All in all, creating the VFX for Crowstorm is a careful balancing act to make it easily readable without downplaying the importance of it in a fight.

I knew I would need a solid plan going into Crowstorm’s update in order to fully deliver on the fantasy of this ability. I focused on what I wanted players to feel, both for the channel and for what happens once Fiddlesticks blinks into the fight looking for kills. For the channel, I really wanted to push the sense of the demon having an uncontrollable urge to kill to the point where it’s literally bursting out of Fiddlesticks. Once channeled, this ability needs to grab attention since it’s a new player entering the fight often from out of vision. In order to do this, I played up a lot of the initial blink with thematic-reinforcing elements such as demonic script, bursts of dark smoke, a bit of distortion, and of course lots of crows.


What’s Next for Champions?
We’re also talking about the Volibear VGU and some upcoming champions in today’s Champion Roadmap video. We’ll share more details about Volibear in a dev blog later this year.

We can’t wait to finally get the Fiddlesticks update into your hands. In the meantime, we’ll leave you with one last thing from development…
Hey everyone! By now, you might have heard a bit about Riot Forge, Riot’s third-party publishing label, and two of our recently announced games with Airship Syndicate and Double Stallion Games. If you’re here, you’re probably interested in learning more about them, so… let’s jump into it!

We still have a way to go and we’ll be sharing more as we get closer to launching the first batch of games, but today, we’re excited to answer some of the questions you may have about Riot Forge and our first two games: Ruined King: A League of Legends Story and CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story.

What is Riot Forge?
Riot Forge is a separate label within Riot Games that is focused on publishing League of Legends games from third-party game studios.

Within Riot, we are a small team working with experienced developers to forge (ayy, finger guns) new games in the League of Legends universe, and also forge lasting partnerships with the game studios we are working with. These talented and experienced devs are creating a variety of League of Legends games that dive deep into the regions of Runeterra and enable you to connect with the champions and characters who live there.

02_Forge_Concept1_l97uywotlnqob8xrr0w7.png
Why are you publishing games instead of making them?
Riot’s current games—which includes both League of Legends and the new games we’ve recently announced—are mostly live-service games that primarily focus on the competitive, multiplayer experience. This is what a lot of players want, and we’re of course going to keep investing in this space internally at Riot. But we also know that most League players play other games (no surprise here), and that there’s a ton of other players who aren’t super into League the MOBA but who are interested in League the universe.

We want to make games for all of these players.

03_Forge_Concept2_mn5l7gdecb0489svz09c.jpg
We’ve been running League for about a decade now, and through all the trials and tribulations, we’ve learned a lot about what it takes to keep a live-service game going. We’ve become more experienced and efficient with time, which allows us to make even better stuff. Much of these learnings carry over to similar live-service titles, but creating single-player games in different genres is a bit different.

Not only that, but spinning up the teams needed to create such a wide genre of games would take years—both to get the people with the right experience in place and to create the right structures to support them. And we want to move faster than that.

There are so many storytelling and gameplay opportunities within the world of Runeterra that we want to bring to life. Partnering with existing developers who already have the expertise, talent and pipelines in place means we can bring high-quality games to you much more quickly and in a variety of ways. Each game will include the developers DNA and unique way of representing League both visually and within the story.

04_Forge_Concept3_bxcb9ew16bb8upxqb63i.png
So wait, are you just handing over my favorite champion?
No but also yes :)

We are not just handing over the League IP—including the champions, world, and characters—to other game studios. These partnerships are not licensed IP collaborations; they are true partnerships where we work together to ensure the game is great. We’ll be working with partner studios to help them find their own voice within the League universe, while guiding them to ensure that the stories being told are authentic to the characters and the world we’ve been developing over the last 10 years. In other words, you don’t have to worry about a character like Braum suddenly becoming a villainous grump.

At the same time, we want to empower the developers we’re working with to create their own space to tell stories and reimagine League in their own style. We’ll be working with them to avoid any conflicts and to make connections to other League universe happenings whenever possible.

And in case you’re wondering… yes, the core narratives in these games will be canon, albeit with some moments and characters being specific to the stories told within the game. This means we can move some of the lingering stories of Runeterra forward in new and interactive ways, which is something we’re really excited about.

05_Forge_Concept4_c2u5ht8jvansmevipath.png
Can you tell me more about how these partnerships work?

Sure! So there are tons of people at Riot who love to play single-player games, and we know there are lots of talented indie game studios around the world who know how to make them. We want to give studios who have made incredible games the freedom to create new League of Legends games in their unique style, whether it be art, game mechanics, or narrative design.

For those of you interested in the nitty-gritty details, we actually tried different versions of co-development, where we actively build a game directly with third-party developers. We found that this could be quite complex and didn’t always provide partners with the right level of freedom. Looking at these learnings has helped us move into the current model, where the game studios we are working with get to own and create their game, and we take the role of a traditional publisher. This means we do not provide any hands-on development support—the development of the game is 100% on our partners. This gives our developers the flexibility and freedom to use their talent and make great games.

In addition to providing guidance throughout development, we’ll also help support many other areas that are needed to ship a game for a global audience, including QA, localization, voiceovers, narrative, research, marketing, and more. Basically, we’ll be there till the end, helping to get the game into the hands of players and ensuring it’s an experience players will appreciate, enjoy, and create amazing memories around.

How do you find game studios to work with?
The Riot Forge team loves attending game events and gatherings so we can meet with game studios and build relationships with developers. The game development community is important to us, and we want to find partners that are passionate about making games and find League an interesting universe to work in.

It always starts with a meeting. From there if it feels like a great fit, we’ll start talking about what the collaboration could look like, which always starts with the game. The ideas come directly from the studio. Generally they have a couple of ideas we chat through, and we help to ensure that it fits correctly in the overall Riot Forge portfolio. We manage this portfolio quite closely because we don’t want two of the same game or games that have a similar story line, as the whole point of games published by Riot Forge is that they are different and explore many areas of the League universe.

Once we settle on an overall idea, agree on the main champion, and things feel good, we move forward and the collaboration is born!

Then it’s all about making an awesome game, and that’s what our developers do best.

07_Forge_Concept6_kw16dzz5rzw53u5x82po.jpg
What types of games are you going to publish?
Riot Forge is focused on releasing bespoke, completable game experiences that connect players to the champions and places in Runeterra through immersive stories and design. Completable games refers to a game that has a beginning, a middle, and an end. It’s an experience that feels complete when you are done, but leaves lasting memories of certain moments in the game because they made you laugh, cry, or anything in-between.

These games will vary in size and depth depending on what experience our developers want to make. The key thing is that these games will be bespoke, which means they’ll be hand-crafted, unique experiences, whether that’s through the way our developers uniquely reimagine League from a visual perspective, or through immersive storytelling.

Our partners are independent studios consisting of smaller teams of specialist developers, so they do not have thousands of people working at their studios. This means the games they create will be more in the indie space, and the scale is smaller than large AAA games.

08_Forge_Concept7_zti4o9rt2b6h9dov9j5h.jpg
What platforms will these games be on?
We’re designing each of these games with the right platform in mind for the best possible experience, which means Riot Forge games could go to PC, console, Switch, and/or mobile.

We basically want to go wherever people are playing in order to provide a wide-range of experiences, so you’ll see us exploring a bunch of different platforms.

What else can you tell us about Ruined King: A League of Legends Story?

Ruined King: A LoL Story is the first game coming from Riot Forge. It’s a story-driven RPG with deep turn-based combat and takes place after the events of Burning Tides.

You’ll play as League champions and explore Bilgewater and the mysterious Shadow Isles for the very first time! We’re really excited for you to be able to interact with these regions in brand new ways.

We’re partnering with Airship Syndicate who have a long history of both creating and working within great IPs and also have an incredibly beautiful and unique art style directed by their co-founder Joe Madureira (Joe Mad), a celebrated comic artist who created the Battle Chasers comic series. Airship really gravitated to the rich story opportunities that the events of Burning Tides inspires and felt passionate about bringing Bilgewater and the Shadow Isles to life.

We feel the partnership with Airship Syndicate is perfect for us. Creating a story-driven, turn-based RPG is something we are super excited to see come together. League of Legends lends itself well to RPG-style gameplay due to the diversity of champions and stories that we are able to tell.

We hope players fall in love with the story, and we’re also excited to work with Airship Syndicate to provide players with this new way to experience Runeterra.

09_Forge_Concept8_4yd52l9ehrpm3x2bmy86.jpg
What about CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story?

CONV/RGENCE: A League of Legends Story, is a single player, action platformer game where you’ll get to explore the spectacular world of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time.

CONV/RGENCE: A League Story is being developed by Double Stallion Games. They recently launched Speed Brawl, a 2D combat-racer about moving fast and maintaining momentum through speed runs. Prior to that they worked on OK K.O.! with Cartoon Network and Big Action Mega Fight. We are hyped to work with Double Stallion and love the way create unique player experiences using gorgeous 2D hand-animated aesthetics that feel fresh and dramatic.

Double Stallion always wanted to make a game featuring Ekko, and we know how much our players love this champion. He has lots of cool combat and time-related mechanics that work well in an action platformer. There are also many storytelling opportunities with Ekko due to the relationship between Zaun and Piltover and the breadth of champions that live in those regions.

We’re looking forward to sharing how Double Stallion explores these stories and brings them to life in-game.

10_Forge_Concept9_irwd2oka5psesx2da2v2.png
What’s next for Riot Forge?
We’ll be sharing more about both of these games next year, including deeper gameplay details and release dates.

And this is just the beginning for us. We’re exploring numerous other games, and we hope to be able to give you a sneak peak at some of them next year. In the meantime, you can follow Riot Forge on Twitter for the latest updates.

Thank you so much for reading!
Hi everyone, we’re back with an update on Clash. Earlier this year, we shared a list of everything we’d need to accomplish to launch Clash globally. We’ve since run a total of 22 tournaments over six weekends in 11 regions. Today we’re pleased to announce that the latest version of Clash has proven to be stable throughout these tests. We ran into some small issues, but we were able to correct them. And we beat the final boss by holding a successful Clash weekend in EU (thanks for being so patient, EU friends!).

Because of this, we feel confident moving forward to our next milestone, which is a global beta across all regions simultaneously. This global beta will be our biggest yet, and it’ll take place across two weekends: December 7–8 and December 14–15.

There will be new, exclusive rewards that can only be earned during this two-weekend Clash tournament. We’ll also be using the ticketing system, meaning players will need to unlock Basic Tickets through missions, the Clash website, or with Blue Essence in order to compete.

This global beta will also be an opportunity for players to try out the new Rise of the Elements changes on Summoner’s Rift in a more competitive setting before the new Ranked season begins.

So Where Are We At Now?
Redesign: Done.
More Internal Testing: Done.
Regional Testing: Regional tests are finished! We caught and squashed some bugs and feel good moving forward after a successful test in EU.
Global Beta (preseason): This is where we’re at now. We’ll be running a global beta during preseason, which will consist of two weekends of Clash tournaments running simultaneously in all Riot regions. We’ll have new rewards, and players will have a chance to compete on the new Summoner’s Rift changes.
Launch (2020): Once the global beta is complete, we’ll have a clearer idea about how Clash works in the real-world. We’re going to take a little time after the beta to fix any issues that crop up, but if things run generally smoothly, we’re prepared to launch Clash a few months into 2020.
Closing Thoughts
We’re really excited to be so close to finally making Clash a reality. Your patience, participation, and excitement around Clash has really kept us going, and we look forward to seeing you in the global beta this December!
A lot has changed since we last talked broadly about the state of alternative game modes in League. With Teamfight Tactics fully launched worldwide, now seems like a good time to provide some updates about the current state of our game modes and where we’re heading in the future.

Our goal with alternative game modes has changed quite a bit over the last year. In the past, we’ve explored modes that put a unique spin on the core League of Legends gameplay. Game modes like Odyssey: Extraction, Star Guardian: Invasion, and PROJECT// Overcharge were exciting for a while, but they didn’t continue to hold your interest for very long. In other words, players were excited to try these modes but would quickly return to Summoner’s Rift after the novelty wore off.

On the flip side, we saw that modes like ARURF and One-For-All kept you queueing up for more even beyond their initial run due to their replayability and similarity to SR. What we found was that modes that focused on being unique could never keep interest in the same way modes that focused on high replayability could. So to that end, the Modes Team is focusing all of our attention on improving the existing long-term game modes and discovering new, potentially long-term modes that you can play for years.

02_Teamfight_Tactics
Teamfight Tactics
A very recent example of this new focus can be seen with our latest game mode, Teamfight Tactics. TFT doesn’t share the usual long-term mode trait of being similar to SR, but it’s not a spin on core League gameplay either: Instead of controlling a single champion and using their abilities, we created League’s take on the new auto-battler genre. One of our main goals behind TFT was to make a mode you could play for a long time, which meant it was really important to create variant experiences and high moments. In other words, you should always have something new to try or chase after, and it should feel exciting to do so.

Because TFT’s core gameplay is fundamentally different from Summoner’s Rift and the other modes we’ve released before, we’ve seen players use it as a way to unwind between ranked games or as something to do with friends of different skill levels. But we’ve also seen that TFT is deep enough to support players who want to be TFT mains.

We’ve been blown away by how much everyone seems to be enjoying the mode, so even though it’s still early, we’ve made the call to make Teamfight Tactics permanent! Moving forward, we’ll continue to support this mode with changes almost every patch and multiple new champion sets (and ranked seasons) each year.

If all continues to go well, we hope we’ll eventually be able to create more modes with completely unique gameplay for you!

03_ARURF
ARURF+
URF has been our most popular alternative mode (though TFT is giving it a run for its money!), and we made some pretty big changes earlier this year when we ran ARURF+. From the gameplay changes, we currently plan on keeping the Catapult of Champions because it sped up the pace of matches and enabled lots of big plays. The buffed-up dragon was also exciting, but securing it gave teams too much power too early in the game, so expect to see some adjustments there.

But the biggest change wasn’t a gameplay adjustment—it was how long we left the mode on for. Previously, our longest run of ARURF was 16 days, but this time we left it running for 42 days straight! During this time, we saw players play a ton of ARURF+ all the way up until the very last day, and once we turned it off everything went back to normal. 

We think URF is our best example of a mode that can bring a ton of excitement each time it comes back, and I can happily say that some form of URF will be back one more time this year.

04_Nexus_Blitz
Nexus Blitz
Nexus Blitz was our first attempt at a new always-on mode that could last a long time. As we discussed before, players overall really enjoy Nexus Blitz for the first few weeks of availability but stop playing pretty quickly after that. While Nexus Blitz didn’t have the level of consistent engagement we’re looking for in an always-on mode, it still makes for a really strong game mode we’d like to bring back a couple times a year. Look forward to all the same fun events and rewards when it returns!

05_ARAM
ARAM
During last year’s Pyke/Bilgewater event, we experimented with ARAM to see how making gameplay changes would affect the way different audiences (both casual and hardcore) play the mode. We found that these changes didn’t really modify how or how much people play ARAM, but the most dedicated ARAM players appreciated that the mode received balance adjustments and improvements like Summoner’s Rift.

So with this year’s Bilgewater mini-event, we tried out a few more changes. Some of them were a bit more ambitious, like a new ARAM-exclusive Summoner Spell, and others were a bit simpler, like runes and champion balance. For a full breakdown of the results of these changes, you can check out this wrap-up post.

Notably, our approach to balancing ARAM was more successful than we expected. Champs that were at a huge disadvantage before balancing now at least had ways to win, and champs that were almost free wins now had to work a little harder. We saw players initially struggle to adjust since the mode had previously been in almost the same state of champion balance for years, but overall we think this has made the mode higher-quality in the long run. This is why we’re going to continue balancing ARAM every few patches, with some bigger changes once a year or so—a decision that’s in line with our new approach of investing more in our existing long-term modes.

06_Twisted_Treeline
Twisted Treeline
Since we’ve been focusing on modes like ARAM a bit more, we’ve seen a few people ask, “What about Twisted Treeline?” One of League’s original alternative game modes, Twisted Treeline has been a place for League players to get the MOBA experience of Summoner’s Rift on a different map with a different meta. However, Treeline has always suffered from low queue sizes, even in times when we added new items, map-specific champion balance, and even the Twisted Treeline redesign waaayy back in 2012. At present, it falls short of even the numbers we saw at the end of Nexus Blitz’s second run. This small population leads to long queue times, poor matchmaking, and ultimately an unsatisfying PvP experience for many of the players who do queue up for Treeline.

Outside of the player population, Twisted Treeline’s art, map design, and even game pacing don’t meet today’s current quality bar and player needs. We debated on whether an ARAM-esque level of support would bring it up to standard, but the lack of growth from the previous efforts we mentioned led us to the conclusion that it just wouldn’t be enough to make Treeline a healthy long-term mode. So at the end of this season, we will be retiring Twisted Treeline. Like Dominion before it, we’re sad to see a longtime part of the game disappear. But we feel this is the best decision for League, as it lets us keep our focus on our larger game modes.

You’ll still be able to earn end of season rewards via Twisted Treeline this season, so a rank of Gold or higher will still get you the Victorious skin. There won’t be a TT specific chroma this year though, as we’ve seen in past seasons that non-Treeline players sometimes spam ranked 3s for the chroma, and we don’t want that to be your final experience with the mode. 

We will have a few small rewards for the most dedicated of TT players which we’ll grant once the mode is retired. Eligibility will be based on games played before today to ensure the integrity of the rewards. Details will be announced in the future.

07_Other_Modes
Other Modes and the Future
As for other older modes, we’ll be looking for opportunities to bring back the ones we think have long-term potential, like One-for-All. These modes are still really fun ways to mix up the core League experience, and we think that lots of people are excited to try out five Yuumi’s. We’re also still exploring even more ideas for other new modes with long-term potential. 

That’s it for now. We hope you continue to enjoy all the fun ways to play League of Legends. Until next time, good luck with your ranked games and may all your TFT champs be 3 stars!
Hey everyone! Eternals, our new champion-based achievement feature that lets you showcase personal accomplishments for your favorite champs, is heading to PBE for release on 9.17. You can read all about how to unlock and equip Eternals in the FAQ. In this post, we’ll be talking more in-depth about Eternals, including details on our goals, how we designed these new achievements, and what the future holds.

Why’d You Want to Make Eternals?
Every couple months, we send surveys to players all over the world asking what types of new personalization features they’d like to see in League. One of the top requests is always for champion-based achievements. We decided to explore what we could do in the space, knowing that we’d have to push through some challenges. Not only is it tricky to add meaningful achievements for 140+ champs, but we also wanted to push the envelope on what this kind of game system could deliver for League.

After a lot of exploration, we landed on a few core goals that we wanted to hit:

Provide players a way to show off their achievements in and out of game
Give players a new progression system beyond Mastery and Ranked
Reward players with unique perks for their success
With these in mind, we invited players to Riot to help lock down some of the details. For example, we worked with players to find the right balance between broadly-appealing accomplishments, like kills and takedowns, and unique, champion-specific moments, like Sylas’s “Stop Hitting Yourself,” an Eternal which tracks how many times Sylas kills an enemy with their own ultimate.

Will Eternals Encourage Bad Behavior?
We do a game design review for every Eternal we create to ensure that, on paper, it’s not incentivizing a suboptimal playstyle. Then we follow this up with playtests to validate “in the moment” feels. This process has been hugely helpful in refining our designs to hit the goal of Eternals—they should reward positive play patterns that are exciting and meaningful to achieve. Balancing positive intent with satisfying Eternal design has been a challenge, so be sure to give us feedback once you’ve played with them if you feel we’ve swung too hard in either direction.

Additionally, we’ve taken several steps to minimize objective-setting with Eternals in game. You can always check how close you are to the next Eternals milestone with the hover tooltip in game, but a tracker isn’t always front-and-center. (At one point, we actually tried removing all ways to track your milestone progress in-game, but that felt pretty bad, so we compromised with the tooltips.)

Much like the Missions and Mastery systems in the past, we expect we’ll refine Eternals over time and tune them based on your feedback. We’ll keep an eye on how things are going after launch, and if you see players acting in bad faith to min-max their Eternals, feel free to report them in game and let us know.

Why are Eternals Only Available for RP?
We took a look at how other games have tackled similar systems to see what felt good and what could use some improvement. Existing systems like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive’s loot boxes for StatTrak weapons and Dota 2’s subscription model for Hero Relics showed us that rarity was a core component for these types of systems. As a result of what we were seeing, we initially designed an early version of Eternals with a loot-based system, but it felt overly complicated and too punishing to be a satisfying approach for League. As a result, we went back to the basics: We’d package sets of three Eternals for players to get with RP.

Additionally—and for complete transparency—Eternals were a huge undertaking to build. The system has a significant amount of new tech powering it to ensure that it works consistently and reliably. We also want to support and expand upon this feature for years to come, and with so many champions to build and maintain Eternals for, the only way we could justify supporting the feature was to attach an RP price to it.

What’s Up With All the Statues?
We wanted to create different visual representations of the types of achievements you’ll be showing off on the Rift. To do that, we explored the idea of appeasing ancient Runeterran gods that responded to your accomplishments, which allowed us to create multiple types of Eternals, with each representing different gameplay pillars.

Here’s a breakdown of each Eternal and the accomplishments they represent:


The Warden

Controlling champions in fights via CC
Motto: “You play on MY terms.”
Sample Champions: Sejuani, Nunu

The Protector

Damage / CC mitigation via tanking, shielding, or prevention
Motto: “Not today.”
Sample Champions: Braum, Shen

The Empress

Superior micro / macro; flawless play or decision-making
Motto: “Big brains. Big plays.”
Sample Champions: Fiora, Ezreal

The Guide
Enabling teammates to make plays and stay in the fight
Motto: “TAKE THE LANTERN.”
Sample Champions: Soraka, Sona

The Warrior

Harm in the most brutal, straightforward way possible
Motto: “Rekt.”
Sample Champions: Mordekaiser, Darius

The Trickster

Deceitful, manipulative mind games
Motto: “/all ?”
Sample Champions: Shaco, Teemo
It’s important to note that these aren’t hard and fast rules. There were several Eternals that we heavily debated when assigning their alignments, like Shen’s Eternal, “Party Crasher.”

“Party Crasher” is a Protector Eternal that increments when you ult to an ally then taunt an enemy within a few seconds of arriving. You could make the argument that this is actually a Trickster Eternal, since in some cases a low health ADC is used as bait to turn a fight. However, we decided that in most instances, Shen’s intent for this particular moment is protecting his target and mitigating damage. There are a number of different Eternals that went through similar processes, and we weighed as many factors as possible in our decision for alignments.

Additionally, our launch set of Eternals has a healthy mix of different achievements to track, some of which are fairly skill-based and others less so. Our Player Labs indicated a wide-range of desires from this system, so we wanted to experiment a bit and see what resonates for our initial set. We’ve already got a list of potential Eternals for Set 2 that we’re playing with, but we’d love to hear what Eternals you’d want to see for your favorite champions going forward!

What Do I Get for Leveling Up My Eternals?
When we decided to add progression to Eternals, we wanted players to have moments where they felt especially awesome with rewards that felt unique. One of the ideas we were inspired by came from the fitness world: Personal Bests. We loved the idea of Eternals being a way for you to capture an awesome game on your main, and let you show it off to everyone in the moment.

We didn’t want everyone to hit their Personal Best in their first or second game, though, so we made it a reward that’s revealed after rekindling an Eternal. Rekindling is when you hit the 5th milestone on one Eternal, and it has a ramping progression that takes roughly the same amount of time as it does to get Mastery 5 on a champion. Once you’ve rekindled your Eternal and unlocked your Personal Best, the time between milestones flattens out so that you can see your achievements more frequently!

Here’s an example of what the progression might look like:

08_Sample_Eternals_Milestone_Curve.png
HERE’S HOW THE PROGRESSION FOR AN ETERNAL MIGHT LOOK THROUGH MILESTONE 5: RAMPING IN THE BEGINNING, THEN EASIER AND FLAT AFTERWARDS!
Additionally, beating your Personal Best in a match has a special milestone callout in-game that highlights the moment to everyone, and it will also be mentioned in the end-of-game screen!

A personal best milestone in action.  

We also wanted to find a satisfying set bonus reward for rekindling all of the Eternals in a set that could scale over time. Like most great ideas, the answer came from players in early playtesting of the system: an upgraded Mastery Emote! This idea was really exciting for the team because it meant expanding on something that players already understand and use, rather than introducing a new keybinding. Now when you rekindle all of the Eternals in a set, your Mastery Emote will upgrade with special marks and an evolving flame effect to indicate how many sets you’ve rekindled!


The first Mastery Emote upgrade from rekindling a set.

What’s Next for Eternals?
Launch is just the beginning for Eternals! As we said earlier, we’re already in the process of making Set 2 for all of the champions in the game, but we want your feedback after you’ve had a chance to play with the first set. We’ve also been tossing around a few ideas for additional features for Eternals, like letting you skin your milestones (e.g. Star Guardian or PROJECT) or seasonal leaderboards, but nothing is set in stone just yet.

A fully upgraded Mastery Emote (5 sets rekindled).

We’re super excited to get Eternals in your hands and can’t wait to see you all flexing your achievements to the world. See you on the Rift!
Hey everyone. After spending the last two weeks reading all your thoughts and collecting feedback from players all over the world, we’re ready to give an update on Eternals. We know it took longer than some of you wanted, but we wanted to be able to share the concrete changes we’re making.

In case you missed it, Eternals are a new type of cosmetic that let you showcase your accomplishments in League, counting both unique and general gameplay milestones on a per-champion basis. In-game, you’ll see milestones “pop up” on the side of the screen as you hit statistical checkpoints for that Eternal.

Other in-game features include a new flair for that champion’s Mastery emote, a list of Eternals at the back of a champion’s loading screen card, and a showcase of your Eternals on enemies’ death screens when you take them down. You can track your progress for each Eternal in the Progression tab of the client when not in game.

Now that we’ve refreshed on what Eternals are, on to the changes…

We’re delaying the launch of Eternals and are making adjustments based on your feedback, including:

Lowering the price of Eternals sets
Separating sets into Uniques and Commons
Creating more Unique Eternals per champion
Making Common sets available for BE during Essence Emporiums
Creating discounted Eternals bundles for those with larger champion pools
Eternals will now be separated into two set types: Common and Unique.

Common sets will only include broadly-applicable Eternals, such as Kills, Objectives Destroyed, and Takedowns. They’ll be available year-round for 225 RP and twice a year in the Essence Emporium for 3500 BE. Similarly to chromas, they’ll only enter the Essence Emporium once they’ve been live for six months, but as a special launch celebration, all Common sets will be available immediately in the Essence Emporium. Each Common set will contain three Common Eternals per champion.

Unique sets will only include custom-built Eternals for each champion, such as Sylas’ “Stop Hitting Yourself” and Shen’s “Party Crasher.” They’ll be available year-round for 590 RP. Each set will contain three Unique Eternals per champion.

We’re also exploring ways to offer discounted multi-champion bundles for players who want to pick up Eternals for multiple champs, but we haven’t figured out all the details just yet. We’ll have more to share as we get closer to the new launch.

If you’d like to try out Eternals now, head over to PBE to test them out on all your mains! They’ll remain on PBE until they go live, especially since we want your help coming up with new Unique Eternals and testing the ones that we’ll be adding regularly. We’ve already seen some great suggestions for new Eternals, and we hope you continue to share those—and your thoughts on the ones in testing—on the PBE Boards.

Your candid feedback after the reveal has been incredibly helpful, especially from those who saw what we saw in Eternals and took the time to outline what specifically felt bad and what you’d like to see improved. We hope you keep the comments coming as we work to create the best version of Eternals.
Conversations around balance can be rough. Over the past 9(!) years, we have found that players don’t necessarily always understand what we’re trying to accomplish (or can accomplish) in a patch cycle. But we want to change that.

Introducing the Champion Balance Framework, a source for all players to hold the “balance” team accountable for how we approach buffing/nerfing champions on a patch-to-patch basis. We’ve been making changes internally on the way we view champion balance for Summoner’s Rift. Now that we’ve had some time to see that change in action, we wanted to formalize this approach so if players dislike a change we make, they can at least understand why we decided to make that change.

What follows is our way of establishing consistent understandings of how we evaluate champions’ power level, especially for the purposes of determining if they ought to be buff or nerf candidates on any given patch. The hope here is that this approach will result in balance targets that feel much more consistent, and thus more understandable.

Champion Balance in the Past
The main improvement we’d like to make by creating a more visible balance strategy is that players feel like the approach to League’s balance decisions is consistent. We expect that a more consistent approach can be more easily trusted–inconsistency with our approach to balance can be the most frustrating thing for players, even more than any individual balance issues of the past or future.

To achieve this, we are putting in place a system that seeks to limit subjectivity in the assessment of (not the reasons for) a champion’s power level. By doing so, we should have fewer champs fly under the radar in either overpowered or underpowered states, and we also avoid risky bias-based balancing.

Updating Our Approach
In the past, we’ve operated under the rough guideline of “we balance for Plat+ play.” Despite that, we’ve demonstrated that we also make balance decisions under other conditions or for other reasons. As such, we’re now formally recognizing the four audiences for which we balance Summoner’s Rift, as well as the parameters that we view as underpowered, overpowered, and reasonably balanced. Here are the audiences:

Average Play

This group contains most players, everything below the top 10% of solo queue (approximately up through Gold). While some may argue that the game should be balanced around only the very best players of the game, we think a balanced experience is an important part of what makes League compelling regardless of skill level. That said, we also think this group’s experience is less sensitive to exact balance conditions, and so our definitions of what is too strong for them is less restricted.

Win rate tells us most of what we need to know about champions’ power level here, and combined with their ban rate, gives us a good view of what is too strong for this group of players. The more a champion is banned beyond the global average ban rate (ABR, currently ~7%), the more we use their ban rate as an expression of the champion’s power level in the tier, and the tighter a band we put on their win rate.

Top End: [54.5%WR if <ABR] to [52.5%WR at 5x ABR]
Bottom End: 49%WR
Skilled Play

This group contains the top 10% of solo queue players, except the very top players (the next group). This group is similar to the Average Play group, but with higher sensitivity to power level. As such, the parameters we use to determine what is too strong for this group are a bit more restricted.

Top End: [54%WR if <ABR] to [52%WR at 5x ABR]  
Bottom End: 49%WR
Elite Play

This group contains the top 0.1% of solo queue players, the best-of-the-best in solo queue. This group is the most sensitive to balance changes out of all the solo queue groups, and also has unique balance needs. Unlike the other solo queue groups, we rarely have sufficient win rate data to determine if something is too strong here (sample size is small due to the extremely limited size of the player audience). Even if we did, these players have mastered the game to such an extent that their champion select behaviors can be trusted as accurate representations of power level. To that end, we draw conclusions about power level based on pick rates in addition to ban rates, and we notably do not consider pick rate a strong indicator of power at any other solo queue tier. We introduce the concept of Presence in this tier, where Presence is the combined Pick and Ban rate of the champion.

Top End: 45% Ban Rate
Bottom End: 5% Presence
Professional Play

This group is the top five recognized leagues of competitive play (currently LPL, LCK, LEC, LCS, and LMS). Somewhat similar to Elite, we determine power level based on this group’s champion select behaviors more so than the results of the games in which they are picked. It’s arguable that just because a champion isn’t picked on a certain patch, that they’re not actually underpowered for this group, but rather that the meta just doesn’t currently allow them to be picked. Despite this reasonable stance, we will consider these champions underpowered in the context of the current meta, and we will balance around the champions’ power level within that meta.

Top End: 90% Presence on the current patch OR 80% presence in consecutive patches.
Bottom End: 5% Presence
Moving forward, we will consider a champion balanced for Summoner’s Rift if they can be considered balanced for any of these audiences. They will be considered overpowered if they cross the top end for ANY of the audiences, and they will holistically be considered underpowered if they are below the bottom end for ALL of the audiences.

Translating that understanding into action, our champion balance priorities are to immediately address champions that are overpowered, then address champions that are underpowered across the board, and when those are accounted for, working on making champions balanced across several audiences (for example, in cases where they might only be balanced for one or two audiences).

Turning Data Into Changes
Once we’ve identified champions that are out of balance, we get into the meaty stuff pertaining to how to actually adjust things. For this, there’s no definitive framework. We’ll continue to use our understanding of audiences’ needs and experiences to make good change. Our hope is that the above system for identifying imbalances allows us to more easily move beyond what is out of whack and get into the why that’s the case, as well as how we ought to address it. Put simply, the framework more easily gets us to the point of agreement on the fact that a champion like Hecarim (for a recent example) is overpowered, and then we get to work on how to fix it.


BUT WHAT ABOUT…

New and Reworked Champions?
New and updated champs won’t abide by these exact parameters for about one month after release. These champions are still actively being learned by the player base—both by those playing the champs and those playing with/against them—and we can expect the champions’ actual power levels to be much different from their statistical performance around launch.

Over the past year, we don’t think we’ve done a great job at balancing new and updated champions, so we’ve put new systems in place outside of our typical strategy to better accommodate them.

These systems focus on things like… a champion’s expected power level at release, their expected performance growth over the first few days/weeks, and plans for if their performance doesn’t match these expectations. This should help ensure no new or reworked champions remain underpowered or overpowered for significant periods of time after release in the future.

Champions With High Play Rates?
We’re pretty wary about punishing a champion for their popularity, as some champs will naturally be played more than others, even at statistically similar power levels—Yasuo and Lee Sin are two examples or champs who’re played pretty consistently, regardless of overall performance. We’ve considered using “play rate change” as a way to account for this, but we didn’t think it added enough value to the framework because play rate doesn’t seem to have a significant correlation to power level. The only exception to this is at the highest levels of play, where we do use play rate as an indication of power.

Champions With High Mastery Curves?
A mastery curve is a representation of how much more effective a player becomes on a champ as they play them more. Champions with steep mastery curves, like Aurelion Sol and Katarina, typically have a much higher win rate when played by experienced players than newcomers to the champion.

We are intentionally leaving out mastery curve data when considering which champions to buff or nerf because we don’t want to enact a system that might punish the investments players make into mastering a champion. We’re also optimistic that if a champion’s power when mastered is out of line, then it will show up as highly present in Pro play or highly banned in Elite play—both of which will lead to nerfs.

Really Frustrating Champs?
There are a lot of reasons a champion could be frustrating to play with or against, ranging from their current power level to their mobility. Using this framework—in tandem with things like survey data and player conversation—will help us to pinpoint exactly what’s causing the trouble. By having clear and objective balance breakpoints, we can better gauge when we can move on from balance work and into designing to reduce overly frustrating gameplay. These two things aren’t mutually exclusive though: Riven’s increased E cooldown in patch 9.10 is an example of a change aimed to reduce a champions’ power level and their “frustration factor” simultaneously.

Regional Differences?
The data we’re drawing from is globally aggregated rather than region-specific. There is potential for a champion’s performance to vary from region to region, but we feel that keeping the data global helps players focus on identifying what problem is being solved by the change regardless of what region plays it better (or not).

If we start changing champions based on a small number of regions’ experiences that can wildly vary from the rest of the world, we are likely to run into issues where the patch notes don’t make sense for players in the other regions. We believe if a trend or an especially spicy playstyle continues to persist, they will show up more prominently in the global data, in which we can then make changes to mitigate them.

It really is about limiting how random changes in the patch notes can feel to players. We expect it to be much easier to explain why we make balance changes based on different “audiences” (every region has average, skilled, and elite players) than to explain that a certain nerf is to account for something a specific region is experiencing.   

If No (or Few) Champions Fall Into Buff or Nerf Territory?
Then we’ve finally balanced League of Legends. Time to pack it up.

But really, if we’re in a stable state where we’ve dealt with most of the overly strong and weak champions, then our next priority is to make champions more balanced across multiple audiences, or consider reevaluating if the current power bands meet the game’s modern needs. It’s possible these bands shrink gradually over time, to some degree. There’s also always work to consider on runes, items, positions, and more to make sure all of these are balanced against one another.

So What About Items, Summoner Spells, and the Jungle?
There’s much more that goes into a balanced League experience than just the power level of champions. But champions are also the lens through which players experience the game, and the piece of the game that tends to resonate most strongly with players.

Most other patch work can be done in service to this approach. For example, we changed the Rift Scuttler’s spawn timer to open up the jungle to a wider variety of champions. We nerfed/changed Ardent Censer to make it so players didn’t feel like they absolutely had to pick enchanters. Generally speaking, when the power level of systemic content is so high that it dictates the champions you want to play, League is a much less compelling game for most players.  

If I Have Thoughts About The New System or Balance In General?
Please let us know! We think this new approach will ultimately lead to better, more consistent champion balance for players across all skill levels, but if the champions we’re targeting for buffs and nerfs don’t seem to make sense from your experience, we’re very open to adjusting it. We don’t expect to reach a point where perception lines up perfectly with the champs we buff and nerf, but we do hope this system brings us closer to that.

We’ll be around in the comments today to answer some of your questions and read your thoughts. On behalf of the entire Summoner’s Rift team, thanks for reading!
During the summer of 2018, we launched the Nexus Blitz alpha as the first “experimental game mode,” a new development approach where we start live testing of a game mode very early in development to help us determine if we should continue working on it. Based on the feedback we got during that first window, we decided to bring it back for a second, longer test run during Snowdown with a huge set of changes.

After seeing how players engaged while Nexus Blitz was live, we’ve decided not to make it permanent at this time. It remains a great mode to occasionally bring back in the future, especially when paired with an event, but players just weren’t playing it enough by the end of the run to keep it always turned on. We know this news might disappoint some Nexus Blitz mains, but the experiment of making it with the League community taught us a lot about what you value, and the lessons from Nexus Blitz will help us make our future modes even more resonant and broadly appealing.

The Second Run of Nexus Blitz
We structured this live window of Nexus Blitz to have two phases: The first four weeks took place during Snowdown as the central “special event” mode, and the last two weeks were a standalone experience. We changed the map a bunch, added new content, introduced bans, and brought in a huge list of other improvements. You can find the full changelist here.

How’d It Go?
At launch and during Snowdown, people played a ton of Nexus Blitz! There was a huge surge of players that queued up to experience all the changes, and total hours played in the first four weeks of the second run were double that of the first—that’s CRAZY. With the exception of the URF modes, Nexus Blitz had the highest engagement from players on an alternate game mode.

People really loved the new content added for this run—Prize Fight and URF Deathmatch were the favorite events by a mile, and the Battle Sled was the most loved reward from the list based on player surveys. Many of the other big changes like the updated map art, addition of bans, and forecast of which event was coming up were also broadly well-received. The quiet powerhouse, though, was the addition of the Nexus Blitz missions and the mode’s tie-in with Snowdown. We saw huge interest in the Nexus Blitz missions, mode-exclusive unlockable cosmetics, and the Snowdown missions to earn tokens.

But when Snowdown ended and the missions turned off for the last two weeks of the run, we saw a huge portion of Nexus Blitz players immediately go back to their usual modes. There was a significant drop in hours played per day, and engagement continued to decline for the rest of the run.

All this tells us that Nexus Blitz is at its best when it’s closely tied into an event. Most players wanted to check out the new, crazy, “wait, that happened in League??” moments, but the novelty of those experiences eventually faded. The big reason people came back consistently was because they had goals to work towards in the form of earnable cosmetics, mission completion, and tokens. Once they had achieved those goals, the vast majority of players preferred to switch back to their usual modes.

What We’ve Learned
Ideally the experimental mode that we make permanent will be able to draw people in over and over again, even after that first burst of novelty wears off and there isn’t an event going on. As we think about future experimental modes, we’ll be reflecting on the lessons learned here and using that knowledge to create a long-lasting experience that can repeatedly serve players. Excitingly enough, we’re already using some of these learnings in other modes. Recently, we brought the Catapult of Champions to ARURF+ so players don’t have to always take Teleport, and we also applied the Nexus Blitz balance approach to both ARURF+ and the ARAM event mode.

While we’re no longer considering Nexus Blitz as a permanent mode for the foreseeable future, we are going to treat it as a great mode to accompany events, especially given its flexibility to feature new in-game events and rewards. We’re already starting to think about when it could come back!

I want to take a moment to give a sincere “thank you” to the League community. Thank you so much for jumping in, looking past the unpolished parts, and having a great time playing this experimental mode. We loved seeing all the clips of Battle Sled crashes, Bardle Royale Poppy ults, and clutch Prize Fight duels.

As developers, it was amazing to get real feedback from the community so quickly, which only helped us to make more meaningful improvements to the mode right away. While we don’t have immediate plans, Nexus Blitz gained a lot from the “experimental modes” approach, and it’s a path we’ll consider for future prototypes. Thanks for helping us make a better (and blitzier) game mode!

To commemorate some of the mayhem, here are some tidbits our data analysts shared about the mode!

Nexus Blitz Fun Facts:
The Catapult of Champions was originally conceived of by Brian “Feral Pony” Feeney and is known as the FeeneyPult internally.
It is also known as the Int-Pult, but it’s not as bad as the Int-Sled, which was by far the lowest win rate reward and the best way to lose a lead. It was also most players’ favorite reward.
Despite having one of the highest win rates, Nasus had the lowest proportions of S grades and highest of D and C grades. Gotta get them stacks.
The Arena event winner had the highest win rate of any event, finally proving that “2v2, 2v2, 1v1 me” is a valid way to determine the better team.
About 1 in 5 games ended with Sudden Death Nexus-to-Nexus Combat.
Maokai was played the most on Nexus Blitz in comparison to Summoner’s Rift. He was also probably winning the most compared to SR.
Akali was one of the top 20 most played champions, despite having the lowest win rate in the game mode (41%).
The most purchased NB-exclusive item was Deathfire Grasp and the least purchased was Wriggle’s Lantern. Stat-Stick of Stoicism had the highest win rate (60%), but that’s mostly because only the people who were already winning could afford it.
Hey everyone! Ed “SapMagic” Altorfer here, back again to talk about Ranked. In our latest video we detailed how position ranks work, how we’re planning to roll it out in a couple stages, and how we’re preventing players from abusing the system. In this article, we’re going to cover what position ranks might be like for you based on how you play and how we tested position ranks.

Simulation: Online
A big problem with Ranked is how off-position games can feel less winnable, fun, and fair, especially since you can’t always get your main position. Even if we removed Autofill—which would triple or quadruple queue times for everyone—you might sometimes want to play a different position for a change of pace, which often puts your team at a disadvantage. We believed we could address both of these and give you a better picture of how good you are by tracking and displaying your skill by position—basically, position ranks.

Position ranks required major updates to matchmaking, MMR, and Ranked, systems that require us to play thousands or even millions of games to reliably catch bugs. That’s not really possible to do without going to live, but at the same time we wanted the Ranked overhaul to be as smooth as possible. To deal with this, we built new tools to help us replay tons of historical games, allowing us to be more confident and—hopefully—reduce the number of bugs that make it into your games.

Basically, with these tools we can simulate what your position ranks would look like this season if you played the same way as last season. Let’s run through a few examples, which should give you an idea of what to expect.

A Gold V player who usually queues Mid/Top
Your climb is pretty similar to last year, but your games feel more winnable and you have a clear picture of how good you are at the other positions you play.

Gold
Let’s say you were Gold V last season and you usually queue for Mid/Top, which is the most popular position combination globally. Over your first 50 games, you play 34 Mid games, 13 Top, and three in other positions—thanks, Autofill.

Your first Mid game nets you a provisional rank of Bronze I—a bit low, but you’ve got seven more games to go, and since you don’t lose LP during placements, you can only go up from there. By the end of placements, your record is 4-4 and you finish in Silver III. By your 50th game, you’ve crushed your Gold promos and you’re sitting at Gold III.

Top plays out similarly, but you start your climb slightly lower than in Mid. You end up finishing your placements, plus a couple extra games, putting you in Silver II. You haven’t played enough games to place in the other positions, so your friends see your Mid and Top ranks in your profile.

What if you throw your secondary and Autofill games?

Splashing helps minimize the grind and keep Ranked competitive by allowing some of your LP gains and losses to “splash” over to other positions each game. On top of that, negative splashing changes based on your recent games in the position you’re playing.

In the example above, if you throw many of those 16 secondary and Autofill games, negative splashing will become larger and start to hurt your progress in Mid. On the other hand, when you win secondary or Autofill games, splashing to your main position is boosted, so your best bet to rank up is to play your hardest and win as many of those games as possible.

A Bronze V player who usually queues Support/Mid
Your climb is similar to last year, but you can play new positions without hurting your team’s chances at winning.

Bronze
Alright, now let’s say you’re a Bronze V player who typically queues for Support/Mid. After your first game, you find yourself somewhere in Iron Tier, and you finish your placements in Iron III. You get autofilled less often than other players, which means less bonus splashing, but since you’re getting your main more, you’ll still rank up just as fast.

Eventually you decide to get better at Mid lane so you can play it when you queue with your other Support friends. You notice you’re facing easier competition than what you’re used to in bot lane, which makes sense. After all, we want you to play fair games, but what that means for you is different depending on your skill in the position you’re currently playing.

What if you always queue for your worst position and then swap for your best?

Since we matchmake you based on the position you’re assigned, swapping with someone in champ select can give you a momentary advantage. That’s not a big deal when it happens occasionally, but over time it can hurt match fairness.

To combat this, we added some new tech—which we’ve been testing in Normal Draft since summer—to accurately detect which position you play and whether you swap. When you trade positions frequently, we can tighten the links between your position MMRs. This means you may end up facing opponents who are better than you if you ever have to actually play the position you’ve been swapping away from.

A Silver III player who usually queues Fill
You climb steadily across all positions, but a little more slowly in any one than you would’ve last year.

Silver
Ok, so what if you’re a player who hit Silver III last season by queueing Fill every game? It takes you a few more games before you finish placements for any one position since you’re bouncing around, but eventually you finish your Support and Jungle placements around Bronze III.

Every game you queue Fill, you earn LP for the position you play, but you also get bonus Splash LP. Whereas a typical player might earn +3 LP to their other positions on a win, you’re earning closer to +7 LP. That means you’re probably climbing pretty quickly for the positions you play most often and you’re making progress in the others.

A high Master player who usually queues Top
Your climb is streamlined because, while your provisional rank is capped at Platinum I, you can climb into Diamond by the end of placements.

DIamond
Finally, imagine you’re a player who was high Master last season. Whereas previously the highest you could place was Platinum I, now that’s the highest provisional rank you can earn, meaning you have seven more games to make the push into Diamond.

As you continue your climb toward the upper tiers, positional matchmaking has less of an effect on your games. Then, when you promote into Master, your position ranks combine into a single rank reflecting your spot on the ladder.

Two weeks in, as Grandmaster unlocks for the first time, you claim your spot. Next up: Challenger.

A player who has been too busy climbing to read our posts
We’re doing some stuff to make your ranked experience better, like providing clearer feedback during placements, better matchmaking, more accurate ranks, milestones and meaningful goals regardless of skill, and new rewards for deep and ongoing engagement.

If you want a quick refresher on our previous posts, check out the links below!

Post 1: /dev: Updates to Ranked for 2019 — We started the journey all the way back in April 2018! In this post, we introduced our goals and high-level plans for Ranked 2019 to start a conversation with you.

Post 2: What We Heard on Ranked 2019 — In this post, we summarized what we heard from you about those plans and goals.

Post 3: /dev: Addressing Your Feedback on Ranked for 2019 — In this post, we discussed how we adjusted position ranks based on initial feedback we heard from you.

Post 4: /dev: Next Steps for Position Ranks in 2019 — In this post, we laid out our plan for releasing position ranks: regional previews followed by a broader rollout to all regions worldwide.

Post 5: /dev diary: New Tiers & Placements in Ranked 2019 — In this video, Primus, Thiago, and I detailed the new placement system and our plan for adding Iron and Grandmaster tier.

Post 6: /dev: Top Tier Changes to Ranked for 2019 — In this post, we talked about how the top of the ladder would be affected by the Ranked changes.

Post 7: /dev diary: Rewards and Splits in Ranked 2019 — In this video, we laid out the three-split season and how you’ll earn rewards this season.

Post 8: /dev: More on 2019 Ranked Rewards — In this post, we answered a bunch of questions about split and season rewards.

Post 9: /dev diary: Position Ranks Explained — Here’s the video that accompanies this /dev blog—check it out if you want to know why we’re doing position ranks, how it works, and how we’re rolling it out in stages.

Post 10: /dev: Position Rank Stories — It’s the thing you’re reading right now! Continue on, Summoner.

This one was pretty dense, but thanks for hanging in there. As always, we’re open to your feedback, so share it along with your concerns and comments—or, better yet, hit us up by clicking the Ask Riot button below. We’re looking forward to you trying out all the Ranked changes when the season kicks off on January 24. Thanks for playing, and we’ll see you on the Rift!
Riot Support now has all the info on what’s under the hood, game designers answered a few of your questions around getting into game, and now in the final part of this update, we’ll talk about what we’ve been doing to make matchmaking better in League.

You’ll hear this a lot, but League’s matchmaking should try to balance three things—create fair matches, where appropriate players get their primary position as much as possible, and maintain short queue times. We spent the last two years developing and shipping improvements to matchmaking behind the scenes and we’d like to share some of that data!

One note: since we were able to keep match fairness consistent throughout the year at most skill levels, we’re gonna be focusing on position select and queue times for this update. We heard from you that both of these were in a pretty bad state, so that’s where we wanted to improve, and where we spent most of our development time last year.

Position select
First up—position select. Adding autofill was one of the first steps we took to help with the pretty rough launch of the position select/dynamic queue system in 2016. Autofill massively cut queue times, but we heard from you a lot that the rate you were getting autofilled was too high.

With that in mind, we looked at ways we could try to improve autofill rates. We’ve talked about how important it is as a tradeoff to a position select system in League, but that doesn’t mean it couldn’t be tightened up. We spent 2017 trying to prioritize getting your primary position far more and getting autofilled less. These graphs show NA data, but all regions follow roughly the same pattern.

POSITION ASSIGNMENT, ALL POSITION COMBINATIONS, NA, JANUARY 2016-2018

(a) Position priority – A change to the algorithm so you’d wait a bit longer but get your primary more often.
(b) Autofill – Autofill introduced for all players.
(c) Autofill primary fix – A config change for primary position rates.
(d) Autofill experiments – We ran some tests for a few different versions of autofill to find one that worked best.
(e) Kidnapping algorithm – This is a change to how we form teams. It’s not as nefarious as it sounds.
(f) Shuffling algorithm – This one tries to ensure you get your primary more.

With changes over the last year, hopefully you’re getting your primary up to 90% of the time, regardless of positions. The graph above shows how frequently players got their primary position, secondary position, or were autofilled last year.

When we originally launched position select, if you chose mid primary and support secondary you’d end up mid in about 1 out of every 10 games—not a great “primary” experience. We’ve been working to change that since early 2016. Even with a position combination where getting your secondary is more likely than other combos (which for most servers is mid/support), we tried to make support much “safer” to take as a second option.

POSITION ASSIGNMENT, MID/SUPPORT, NA, JANUARY 2016-2018

(a) Position select launch – Players immediately figure out that support secondary probably means “you’re getting support.” The health of the system degenerates.
(b) Position priority – This feature helps temporarily but eventually degenerates again.
(c) Autofill – Autofill launches, and more players are assigned support.
(d) Autofill primary fix – Mid rates pass support for the first time through a config change aimed at primary position rates.
(e) Autofill experiments – We ran some tests for a few different versions of autofill to find one that worked best.
(f) Xayah and Rakan released – The bot lane duo bounced onto the Rift, and Rakan’s popularity pushed mid/support players to get mid way more often (as many more selected support as their primary! #supportmainsunite)
(g) Autofill test – Config change for autofill.
(h) Kidnapping algorithm – This is a change to how we form teams. Seriously, it’s not that bad.
(i) Zoe released – Many more players picking Zoe temporarily lowered the chances of getting mid. This is pretty standard for any new champion.
(j) Start of 2018 season – Which is basically now.

The graph above shows how frequently you get your primary position, secondary position, or are autofilled in the hardest-to-accommodate case: mid primary, support secondary. We figure if the “worst-case scenario” is still performing pretty well, that’s a decent indication that regardless of what you choose, you should still get your primary in a vast majority of games.

Queue times and “Time to Game”
We had a couple of opportunities throughout the year to lower what we call your “time to game.” This includes anything that happens between hitting “Find Match” and getting into the loading screen—champ select duration, dodges, and queue times. Being stuck in an eight-minute champ select and then having someone dodge at the last minute feels rotten, so here’s what champ select looked like in 2017.

CHAMP SELECT DURATION, ALL REGIONS, 2017

(a) 10 bans system launch – Moving from six alternating bans to 10 simultaneous ones shaved over 30 seconds on average from each champ select.
(b) Simultaneous draft picks launch – Making consecutive picks part of the same phase cut a lot more time.

On top of these feature launches, we released some visual improvements to champ select designed at drawing more attention to when it’s your time to act. We saw unintentional dodges (as a result of not locking in) drop from one-out-of-ten to one-out-of-fifteen with these changes.


As for queue times, being stuck in multiple long queues in a row feels rough, and as our team’s name “Get In Game” suggests… we want to get you into game. In 2016, at the highest levels, some players were waiting literally hours just to play a game of League. Not good.

QUEUE TIMES, ALL REGIONS, 2017

(a) Optimal Operational Parenthesis Solution – Please don’t ask us about this.
(b) Dodge fix – We fixed an edge case where dodges caused players to get stuck in matchmaking.
(c) Kidnapping test – Testing a different kidnapping setup for a month or so…
(d) Kidnapping test off – … and then reverting it to see what impact it had.
(e) Box algorithm – Optimized code for hardware setup to get faster queue pops. Thinking inside the box.
(f) Kidnapping algorithm – This is the same fix mentioned in previous graphs—it also improved time to game.

So compared to the beginning of 2017, queues should feel a lot shorter across the board, only reaching around 4 minutes at worst (with some high-MMR exceptions). Sorry to everyone who takes in-queue toilet breaks.

Alright, just one more graph—let’s rewind a little. As you’ve seen, improving matchmaking is iterative, long-term, and never done. Here are the queue times for the same five days in January (roughly the start of each season) from 2015 to 2018:

QUEUE TIMES, ALL SERVERS, JANUARY 2015-2018

Early 2015: Queue times were okay, but at their worst, they hit around 12+ minutes.
Early 2016: Position select was really inefficient at launch, so some high level players would wait 26 minutes or more just to play one game. Yikes.
Early 2017: Autofill’s introduction, as well as other small fixes, normalized queue times back to 2015 levels.
Early 2018: 2017’s iterative improvements, bug fixes, and config changes have gotten League to the healthiest matchmaking state so far.

So, in short: We know it’s not perfect, but today, you should be in fair matches, with the position that you want more often, as well as not waiting long to get into game. But… what’s next?

Plans for 2018 and beyond
For 2018, we’re considering some crazy ideas. These are in various stages of development ranging from “It’ll probably happen” to “No idea if that’ll actually work.” Here are a few things we’re thinking about.

SUPER REALLY FAST QUEUES?
We’re wondering if it’s possible to have 20 or 30 second queue times for everyone without sacrificing other factors. It might not even be possible, we’re not totally sure yet. But we’ll see if there’s even a small chance of making it happen.

NOOB AND SMURF MMR
We’ve got a new algorithm that’s gone through a few tests that looks like it could get players to an accurate matchmaking rating much more quickly than right now. As a bonus, this can help with getting smurfs to the right places faster. We’ll let you know when this comes out of testing, assuming it plays out the way we expect.

POSITIONAL THINKING
No design for ranked solves every problem. One of the big ones in today’s system is that games are just as challenging skill-wise no matter what position you end up playing. This sucks when you’re just playing out of your comfort zone and double sucks when you get autofilled. We’re looking at a few different ways of solving those issues without creating a ton of exploits. We’re still brainstorming here, so it’s a perfect time to let us know what you think about this problem.

This is the third post of a three-part update on matchmaking in League! Read the rest below:

Part 1: How does matchmaking work? – A much-needed update to the Riot Support article to better represent how matchmaking works in League in 2018.

Part 2: /dev: Matchmaking Real Talk – Answering some of the tough questions around matchmaking, and hopefully dispelling some myths along the way.

Part 3: /dev: Making Matchmaking Better – Take a look behind the scenes at some of the improvements we’ve been making for the last couple of years.
Ask Riot gets a lot of questions about how we decide on your teammates and opponents in League, and we wanted to take some of the frequently asked ones and give them to the designers that work on matchmaking, champion select, position select, and all that good stuff. Let’s dive in:

Why do some games of League feel imbalanced?
When you encounter imbalanced games of League, we generally chalk it down to three major culprits: snowballing, matchmaking uncertainty, and/or perception.

In terms of design, we want League to be a game where getting a small advantage and running with it is one path to victory. Any small successes that are snowballed can determine early leads, and then sometimes the result of the game. Early Pantheon double kills can feel unstoppable without a miracle teamfight, but there’s always itemization and strategic calls that can turn games around from the brink of defeat.


Within the actual systems, most teams have an expected win rate of 50 +/-1%. This means from all the data we have, we think we’ve made a fair match. But we can’t rely purely on the raw data. What if players are playing positions or champions they aren’t familiar with? What if there’s a large discrepancy in MMRs in a normal premade, or a player hasn’t played enough games to get an accurate rating (looking at you, smurfs)? On top of this, there could be personal factors that matchmaking can’t see—lack of sleep, one too many Graggy Ices, that sorta thing.

Depending on how you’re doing, it could just be your perception. Being wrecked is much more visceral than the joy of dominating your opponent, and the really bad moments can unfortunately be more memorable than the great ones.

And sometimes you’ll just have a bad game.

While we know our matchmaking systems are never going to be perfect, and sometimes you (or your opponent) will end up with a 20 minute win, we try everything we can to prevent imbalance before the game has even started, and consider it a huge priority to ensuring League remains competitive.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game Team

Why do I get worse people in my games when I’m on a hot streak and trying to climb?
This is pretty much an urban myth. Mostly.

There’s nothing in the MMR system that forces you to have lower-skill teammates or disproportionately higher-skill opponents. We expect every game you play to have a 50 +/-1% chance of your team destroying the Nexus.

As your MMR goes up, you’ll stop being the “standout” player and your teammates’ skills will be higher. This can also happen to anyone else in the game, which can give the impression that you have “worse” teammates, when really they might just be newcomers to your skill bracket.

Even if it all goes wrong and you feel like your teammates have been letting you down, you can make use of systems like demotion protection and promo helper to prevent you from being punished for a few “unlucky” games. We think this is the right tradeoff compared to having a volatile rank—being demoted feels rough, and reaching a tier should be a decent indication that you can play at that level.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game Team

Why do I come up against high-ranked players in unranked games?
MMRs between queues aren’t connected. This means occasionally high-MMR ranked players have lower MMRs in normals.

Our perspective on the queues is that ranked should continue to be where you put on your tryhard pants. In contrast, unranked queues should be a place to play and experiment in a less intense competitive setting. The reason the MMRs aren’t linked is that introducing a consistent connection could change the competitive intent of each queue.

For example, if having a higher ranked MMR meant you would be placed higher in normals, it could put more pressure on you to have a “ranked mentality” in all queues. Beyond this, we want to provide an outlet for experimentation and lower stakes through unranked modes. A player who tries super hard in ranked may play with their casual friends and try goofy strats in normals in a way that means they perform at a lower level.

That said, we think there’s room for improvement here. We’re looking into some options, such as having better algorithms to get players to more accurate MMRs in a shorter time, or potentially “splashing” small amounts of MMR from ranked into normals without a direct link between the two.

— Riot Socrates, Designer, Meta Game Systems

Why do I get matched with unranked players if I’m Bronze/Silver/Gold?
When players first start playing ranked, they have to go through a period of placement games where we try to figure out how good they are. We have to place them against players we already have a lot of information about to get the most accurate placement. Since most players are Silver and below, we tend to start looking in Silver and move them up or down based on their performance.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

Why do you continue to match me with players I block/mute/report?
Short answer: It would literally break matchmaking if we didn’t.

Imagine you’re Challenger in KR (congrats) and you come up against Faker in midlane. He dumpsters you, and your plays show up in a TOP FAILS montage on the Inven frontpage. Next time you see him in solo queue, you rage-check a box that says “don’t match me with this player.” Now imagine 100 more people do that this week.


Matchmaking would have to look at players much further from your MMR because it’s unable to fill a lobby, your queue time would increase, and you’d end up being on consistently less-good teams. Players end up like a bunch of magnets constantly repelling each other—if enough of them misuse a feature like this (and it wouldn’t take many!), then fair matches would end up next-to-impossible to find.

— Riot Draggles, Comms Strategist, Meta Game Systems

Why does the system not use KDA and other similar stats instead of Elo/MMR systems?
League of Legends is a team game and teams win or lose games together. We don’t want to impose an arbitrary system of rating players on performance because then the best way to beat that system would probably be to get good scorelines, rather than helping the team win.

We want to reward good play that ultimately leads to a win, no matter how small their impact may seem. Supports sacrificing themselves to save their ADC, tanks zoning three enemies in a teamfight, or assassins diving the backline to blow up the carry are all examples of plays that may not make a great statline but help get the W. Some champions have unique playstyles (think Singed/Nunu) that would be tough to measure, and their mains may not be graded appropriately based on their play.

You should be rewarded for different types of achievement and impact, so we’re always looking at new systems to surface cool in-game plays (like vision score or unique missions) that aren’t necessarily reflected in KDA or win/loss ratios. We also want to try and give you ways to express mastery across different positions. What sorts of different ways would you like to see progression in League? Let us know!

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

Why can’t I see my MMR?
We talked about this when we first released the Leagues system (holy crap, five years ago now). tl;dr: Showing MMR has a lot of downsides in a team-based game like League.

On the plus side, MMR is a more accurate summation of where you are in relation to other players across the entire server, and showing it can be more reassuring that the match you’re in is fair when scouting your opponents out before a game.


Using MMR as the sole mark of achievement in League punishes half of the playerbase as their MMR will decline over the course of the season, which sucks because most of them are gradually getting better at the game—but so is everyone else around them.

Ranked tiers also provide contextual progression and status. Knowing you’re “a Gold player” as opposed to “a 1650 MMR player” or “120,353 on the server” gives you clearer targets to work towards. Moving from 1595 to 1600 MMR is probably not that compelling, but promoting from Silver I to Gold V should give you the knowledge that you’re truly improving.

The Leagues system also gives you a bit of protection from losing a bunch of games in a row and having your MMR plummet as a result. Using demotion protection and promo helper, you can get a few extra lives in rare cases of not getting your preferred position for a few games or just being in a slump. Ranked anxiety is real, and we know there can be a lot of pressure, so having meaningful progression that feels good should hopefully break down a few of those barriers.

— Riot Gortok, Designer, Get in Game

I’m in Master/Challenger and my MMR seems to be going down. One day I have favourable LP gains and the next I don’t. What’s going on here?
LP gains and losses are also based on your skill estimation compared to the players around you. This becomes most apparent at the Master/Challenger level, where there are only a few players and the competition for spots becomes very contentious. If you take a break from playing for a bit, the MMRs of the people around you are still changing, and that can result in notably different LP gains when you return.

For example, let’s say you grind to Challenger and bank games to lock your LP for 10 days, then go on vacation until your banked games run out. While you’re away, your MMR/LP is safe and static, but all those other Challengers (and Masters, and high Diamonds) are still playing games. This tends to slowly increase the average MMR at the high end of the ranked system. So when you come back from your hiatus, your MMR is right where you left it—but now the competition around you is even higher. When you play again, you’ll get lower LP gains and higher losses, as you are now slightly below the average for your ranking, but as you win a few games, those LP changes will return to normal.

— RiotIAmWalrus, Designer, Competitive

We got pretty technical here, but we hope this provided a little more context into matchmaking in League. What other questions do you want answered? Where do you feel we can improve our systems? Let us know in the comments!

This is the second post of a three-part update on matchmaking in League! Read the rest below:

Part 1: How does matchmaking work? – A much-needed update to the Riot Support article to better represent how matchmaking works in League in 2018.

Part 2: /dev: Matchmaking Real Talk – Answering some of the tough questions around matchmaking, and hopefully dispelling some myths along the way.

Part 3: /dev: Making Matchmaking Better (releases next week) – Take a look behind the scenes at some of the improvements we’ve been making for the last couple of years.
If you had walked to the farthest, darkest corner of Riot Games about a year ago, chances are you would have come across a small group of artists huddled together in dim lighting and deep discussion about how to make fire look like paint. The “Annie team” spent a lot of time like that, debating among themselves while wallpapering their part of the building with references and sketches—a madcap studio-within-a-studio hellbent on discovering the perfect method and medium for what was to be Annie’s origin story.

But the spark that started it all occurred long before there was ever a team.

IGNITION
It was 2012, and the first animated login screens appeared in the League client. These 2D graphics, carefully distorted to imitate motion, were an immediate hit with players and became a regular part of every new champion release. Seeing the massive popularity of “mographs” like Diana’s, one art director asked a deceptively simple question: What would one of these looping login screens look like as a long-form, animated story?

It was an intriguing idea, but there was a problem: The motion graphic artists at Riot used completely different technology and techniques than traditionally trained 2D animators. Creating a multi-minute animation would require an entirely new approach to making mographs, one that could extend far beyond the standard single looping shot.

It took some time to find a team wildly enthusiastic enough to attempt something no one at Riot (or maybe anywhere) knew how to do. It took more time to convince Riot—and themselves— that they could actually pull it off. But by the end, they didn’t just learn a new way to make mograph animations. They invented one.

ADDING MORE TO ANNIE
But first, they had to pick a champ.

“Originally, we were gonna do a Zed piece, and then we were thinking about a Miss Fortune one,” says director Anthony “ RiotPastaBomb” Possobon. “But other teams were already working on some ideas for those champs. We wanted to do something with a champion that no one else was really interested in so we wouldn’t overlap with other projects.”

When RiotPastaBomb and the motion graphics team began reviewing the League roster for a main character, Annie wasn’t perceived as a compelling protagonist. She’d made an appearance in a cinematic before, but to many Rioters she wasn’t a major character in the world of Runeterra. Her story was just too simple.

“She was an evil girl, and that’s it,” says RiotPastaBomb.

The team began thinking about how Annie might discover her powers—the initial sparks of a personality equal parts precocious and psychopathic. After a few drafts, they had an outline of Annie’s origin story that would deepen her character and hopefully wow players in a way her backstory never really had before.

Storyboards by Seung Eun Kim
STORYBOARDS BY SEUNG EUN KIM
“We put together a storyboard, then turned it into an animatic with subtitles, using ‘Orb of Winter’ as the backing track to give a sense of the mood,” RiotPastaBomb recalls. “And we got the green light to keep going.”

AN ILLUMINATING EXPLORATION
The team officially began the project by exploring the style and feel they wanted with a mood board, a collection of visual references for everything from shapes and colors to the overall tone and core emotions.

“At first, it’s everything, a ton of just looking for inspiration. Sometimes we use references not even related to the project—just things we’ve seen that we liked, that inspired us, moved us. You may not end up using them, but it gets you started thinking,” says artist Lilit “L i L i t a” Hayrapetyan.

One major thing the team considered in the early stages was lighting. “We actually started with black and white photography,” she continues. “We wanted the lighting to be super dramatic to match the story, so we decided on a lot of contrast, a lot of backlighting.”


Of course, there’s more to a visual style than just sharp contrasts in lighting. It was important to the team that the visuals didn’t just dramatize the tragedy of Annie’s origin, but matched who she was as a character: an imaginative child. Early exploration kept coming back to fluid, slightly surreal visuals and clouded, shifting forms—a kind of constant fog mixing memory, imagination, and reality.

But what would a world woven from the mind and magic of an eight-year-old girl actually look like?

LUCID DREAMING
They found it in a dream. Well—not their dream, but Annie’s.

“Originally, we had the idea that there would be the main story, and then a dream sequence, or a flashback in memory,” says artist Ke “Keboom” Swaab. One particular drawing of Annie and her sister running through that dreamy landscape, a cross between an impressionist painting and stylized graphic design, captured the team’s imagination (another version of the scene made it into the League artbook).

“We could establish a unique style for memory, and different style for reality,” says Keboom.


But as the team continued to explore the two visual styles, the conversation shifted to combining them into one unified aesthetic for the whole animation. Keboom tried her hand at another piece of concept art to capture what that might look like.


The painting embodied everything they had been exploring. The team was in love. But when it came to its viability as a style for a full animation, they had their doubts.

“It’s very idealistic,” says Keboom. Incorporating both the aesthetic of the dream sequence—with its graphic, vibrant, and childlike lines—and the more photorealistic, carefully lighted reality of earlier explorations would be extremely tricky, if not totally impractical.

There was also the small problem of the team itself. It was unrealistic to think they could hand-paint every frame in this style—a task that would take hundreds of trained illustrators/animators—with a single-digit team that included exactly zero. “But we just loved the painterly, watercolor look,” says L i L i t a. They weren’t ready to give up just yet.

If the team wanted to make the mograph appear hand-painted with only a few hands to do it, they would have to work a little magic of their own—to create something that looked like a painting, but moved like an animation.

PYROTECHNICS AND FAIRY-TALE FIRE
“We needed to know how to make paint move, and we needed to know how to make fire, paint,” says RiotPastaBomb.

“I started by going to YouTube and picked a few fires,” says artist Jose “Come2Papa” Martin. He passed them through a filter in Adobe After Effects, trying various combinations of frame rate and brush sizes until the flickering flames began to (very roughly) approximate the look of paint.


Come2Papa continued to experiment with filtering to confirm how closely he could produce the particular style the team had come to refer to as “painterly.” It ended up working great—for about 80% of a given scene. What the filter couldn’t do was replicate that last 20%: the precise brushstrokes of a real artist and the key to making it look truly hand-painted.

“It can only apply the ‘brushstrokes’ arbitrarily,” explains L i L i t a. The filter reduced the total amount of manual labor required, but it would still be necessary to incorporate a step where the artists manually directed the motion on-screen rather than leave it random.

And some sequences would require more than just direction. While it was easy enough to pass a sourced video of rushing water through the filter and get a good foundation for a river environment, more specific sequences—like a burst of flame in the palm of a hand—required full 3D simulation before ever using the filter to render it in the 2D, painterly style.

The team’s solution was to develop a hybrid 2D/3D process, and with it, a new take on Annie’s pyrokinesis.

“Her fire doesn’t look dangerous to me,” says L i L i t a. “It’s these curly, beautiful lines—it’s a fairy-tale fire.”
“HER FIRE DOESN’T LOOK DANGEROUS TO ME,” SAYS L I L I T A. “IT’S THESE CURLY, BEAUTIFUL LINES—IT’S A FAIRY-TALE FIRE.”
The newfound process was producing fantastic results when working with fire. Now it was time to test a full scene.

First, the team created an environment made from a composite image of still photographs. Then they added an illustration of Annie, color-corrected, and used the custom filter to produce the hand-painted, fairy-tale look. Finally, they manually added small touches to make it feel more three-dimensional: a combination of bigger and smaller brushes for the textures, shading and lighting.

It looked something like this:


“This test gave us confidence that we could achieve the style we wanted in the end, even with a team of only five people,” says RiotPastaBomb

But when it came to facial animation—critical for Annie to give an emotional and realistic “performance”—the team struggled hard.

THE DEVIL’S IN THE DETAILS
“First we tried motion capture, using those capture points to animate a 2D face,” says RiotPastaBomb.


Just as the filter was developed to make up for a lack of illustrators, motion capture would allow the team to animate without animators—or a third dimension. If the team could mirror (or at least mimic) muscles, they could work entirely in 2D. But it just didn’t look life-life, and in some cases, it was downright weird.

“Then we thought, maybe partial 3D?” says RiotPastaBomb. They tried mapping the 2D texture to a 3D “mannequin face,” keeping the animation mostly 2D, but venturing into 3D for key moments that required it.

But that had its own issues.

“It was so freaking difficult just to turn Annie’s face without it looking weird,” says RiotPastaBomb. “We’re talking five different assets. But, silver lining: We figured out how to do hair—which normally is very tricky in 3D—entirely as 2D assets, all done with distortion in After Effects.” Another silver lining: Annie’s dress ended up working like that as well.

The problem was that it was incredibly difficult to always animate Annie’s face the same way. “Because it wasn’t a true 3D model, where you have a single, actual geometry that will always be that way, every angle and every shift in lighting changed how things looked,” RiotPastaBomb explains. It was impossible to know how Annie should look from every viewpoint.

The team was torn. 3D would make everything “perfect” and establish consistency in the animation. But paint by nature is not a perfectly consistent medium; to look hand-painted, it would need to look somewhat imperfect.

In the end, the team decided on a mix of everything they had explored so far: 3D to achieve the initial consistency in animation, and 2D to capture the nuances of a painted image. The custom filter to produce a painterly foundation, and painting and shading by hand for the final details. A perfectly imperfect blend of the real and the fantastic—and one that was unmistakably made for Annie.


It’s taken months of exploration and a full year of storyboarding, 3D modeling, 2D texturing, filtering, cel shading, hand-painting, and animating to bring Annie’s origin to life. The tech has come a long way from login screens and the team has finished an animation that was as much a personal journey as an experiment in motion graphics.

But for Annie, it’s just her beginning.

For an extended inside look at the team’s process in action, check out the behind the scenes video.
Teamfight Tactics has been out for a little over three months now, and we’ve nearly reached the end of our first set. Time has flown by so fast, and we can’t wait to show you what’s coming in Set 2: Rise of the Elements. But before the new set hits PBE, we wanted to discuss some of the things we’ve learned in our first three months and how we’re taking those learnings forward into the future.

We’re going to go pretty in-depth today, so here’s a quick summary:
We want to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces.
You can hold us accountable to higher standards of balance so that a wider variety of comps can win in any given patch.
We’re aiming for less frustrating and fewer overall disables.
We’re going to have more soft counters than hard counters, especially between traits.
Rate of change was overall a bit high, so expect B-patches to only be used to nerf strong outliers.
Bugs are bad, and we’re going to take more time to make sure we deliver a game with less issues.
We want getting 4th place or higher to always feel like a win, so we’re changing it so you always earn LP for a top-half finish.
Good Random vs Bad Random
02_Hextech
Randomness is always going to be a hot topic when discussing TFT. At a high-level, Set 1 reaffirmed to us that TFT is about how you play around the randomness presented to you through the store, item drops, and various effects in game that cause variance. We still strongly believe that utilizing randomness in the correct way creates a wider variety of experiences, which leads to more replayability. In addition, one of the ways players can express skill is through knowing how to adapt to the many possible outcomes that can occur.

That being said, we certainly learned a lot about where inserting variance worked and was received well and where it wasn’t.

For example, two-piece Imperial (most commonly with a Darius and Draven) was a very random effect that boiled down to a coin flip on whether or not your most important carry would do double damage. We found this fit into acceptable random because you opted into the risk, and it was fairly easy to predict the possible outcomes.

The counter proposals here are Phantom and Hextech, which were our most controversial traits. Many players had a very real negative reaction to their most important champion losing all three of their items or being set to 100 HP with nothing they could really do about it. Phantom in particular did achieve our goal of creating exciting moments and chances for you to win fights you might not normally win, but it did so in a way that was likely too costly for the overall experience.

So as Set 1 went on, we made improvements by moving towards more controlled randomness. For example, we revamped the item distribution system so that the outcomes were more controlled than before while also opening up a wider variety of potential outcomes. We saw this lead to a more fair and more exciting experience. We did something similar with Thieves Gloves, where instead of simply giving the champion any random two items, we created an extremely controlled list and limited where the power can show up at various stages in the game. Again, we believe this led to positive results.

With all that said, we’ll be continuing the trend of trying to keep random effects in positive and controlled spaces in Set 2.

Champion Balance & Design
03_Akali
Honestly, this section could be an entire article by itself. Our understanding of what makes a good champion in TFT and what balance qualities they should have has increased exponentially since TFT launched. Let’s try to keep it shorter and discuss some of the most key things we learned though.

Trait tax shouldn’t be as severe: We saw pretty early on with champions like Fiora, Lissandra, and Mordekaiser that having champions who were intended to be bad because they enabled very powerful traits just didn’t pan out. It also limited the types of comps people were willing to run since it meant having to use these less-than-ideal champions. Few people enjoyed having to carry around a bad Mordekaiser just to enable Phantom. It’s okay for them to be less powerful, but not to the degree we launched with.

Even bad champs should have a fantasy: Champions that weren’t the obvious powerhouses were and still are bound to happen—this is fine. But those champions need something to aspire to in the right conditions. Katarina was the best example of this: When given the right items, she could carry the game for you, despite being generally weak. Three-star Veigar was another big one. We aim to create more examples like this in Set 2.

Champions shouldn’t be overloaded: Certain champions simply had too much going on in their kits in Set 1. Pantheon’s spell had a stun, AoE percentage health damage, and a built-in Morello. Akali’s spells only cost 25 mana and were allowed to crit without a Jeweled Gauntlet. Shyvana got a free Dragon’s Claw from her trait, a free Red Buff on her autos, tons of AD, and a burn effect. In all of these cases, the champs had more effects and rules than they needed to. We’re going to keep this more in check for Set 2.

One last note worth bringing up is that balance wasn’t as good as it could’ve been across the patches. We learned that even something as small as 0.05 attack speed or 50 starting HP can make a huge difference. Over the course of Set 1 we tried a variety of tactics—such as nerfing multiple aspects, a single aspect in a big way, or a single aspect in a small way—and we learned what works and what swings things too far. So in Set 2, hold us to an even higher standard for balancing the game so that a wider variety of comps can win in a given patch.

Disabling Effects
04_Freljord
We already knew this going into TFT, but abilities that disable your champions are perceived to be less fun. When designing abilities in League, we’ve seen a pretty visceral reaction when they cause a loss of control or inhibit your ability to perform expected actions. In TFT, Glacial initially had some very strong reactions from people who said it was no fun to have your army just frozen in place. However, we knew that this was acceptable because we need disabling abilities in TFT as outlets to damage, otherwise the game simply becomes who wields the biggest damage cannon.

That being said, there are a couple areas we know we can improve on. For starters, we looked back and agree that we ended up with too many disables. Demon, Glacial, Hextech, Phantom, Hush, Cursed Blade, Swordbreaker, Zephyr, Leona, Ashe, Sejuani, Gnar, Kennen, and more… it was too easy to get your army in a state of “I don’t get to play.” Because of this, we will be aiming for less disables overall in Set 2. (Important here, we said less. Not none)

We also learned what types of disables worked and what types didn’t. For example, pre-changed Demon was extremely painful, since it prevented most champions from ever living out their fantasies. Once you got hit once, it was probably over since you lost ALL your mana. New Demon and Hush worked much better—while they did disable you, there was the hope that they’d wear off, or you could still gather enough mana to cast your spell. Predictability also played a big part here. Zephyr ended up in a good spot even though it disabled a character for six seconds (a much stronger effect than Hextech) because it was predictable and could be played around. You can expect to see more disables like these in the future.

Hard Counters vs Soft Counters
05_Yordles
Early on in Set 1, we believed that having hard counters was the best design choice for TFT. Dragons had 100% magic immunity as a hard counter to spells, Grievous Wounds blocked 100% of healing as a counter to healing effects, and Wild/Rapidfire Cannon made your attacks undodgeable as a counter to Yordles. (Poor poor Yordles.) In all of these cases, it led to some pretty extreme meta situations where the things being countered were considered to be not viable options by many players. Yordles in particular pretty much always struggled to find a good spot, even with the introduction of Mittens.

In all of the above cases, we saw much more success when we pivoted to a softer counter. When Grievous Wounds became 80% heal reduction (which is still REALLY strong), we saw healing effects being used more, leading to a wider variety of viable strategies and builds, since players could still get some value from Bloodthirsters and Hextech Gunblades.

There was also the case of “general counters,” which we define as something that is just universally good against everything. Noble became a general counter when it swapped from giving armor to giving armor and magic resist. The only way to counter Nobles was the new Void trait, which had the same quality of being just generally strong in all cases. True damage as a whole fits this as well. General counters are usually too good, and we’re going to be moving away from them.

When Set 2 launches, you will notice that the traits are more in the soft counter space. In addition, we’ll be making some changes to the items as well to shift them into a soft counter space in a future patch after Set 2 launches.

Expansion Content in Set 1
06_TFT_Items
With Set 1, we released quite a few pieces of what we call “expansion content,” which is stuff that expands the set beyond its initial launch state. This included:

Twisted Fate in 9.14
The four Hextech champions in 9.16
Pantheon in 9.17
Item system revamp & Neeko’s Help in 9.18
Kai’Sa and Sparring Gloves in 9.19
From what we saw, there were some pretty clear takeaways. Having a big piece of expansion in almost every patch contributed to the feeling that the rate of change was too high. In addition, the smaller drops like Twisted Fate and Pantheon were much less successful at generating excitement, where as the larger drops like Hextech and the item system revamp did a much better job.

07_Hextech_Champs
As for champions, we learned that…

The 50 champs we launched with was a bit small, especially in the 1-cost area. When we launched Twisted Fate, we swapped Elise to a 1-cost, which led to a better early game state, but TF himself was also a bit of a disappointment at the time.
Adding a new trait was very exciting (ignoring the quality of Hextech itself), though ramping from 51 to 55 champs was a very large change to the feel of the game. It was immediately noticeable how much more difficult it was to two- and three-star champions.
Adding the two 5-cost champs at the end was probably not great, since the change in difficulty in chasing legendaries changed so dramatically so quickly. Noble was the biggest victim of this, with Kayle going from a pretty reliable chase to almost luck based—which was a pretty big nerf to the trait. We want legendary champions to be exciting capstones to late game builds that feel great when you find them. If they’re too difficult to find, then you stop trying to chase them.
With all that in mind, for Set 2 we are going to try shipping less total content patches, but each one will be larger. Our current thinking is 3-4 content patches over the course of the set. Our goal is for each of these drops to bring an exciting and meaningful change.

B-Patches & Rate of Change
08_TFT_Board
One of the things we dealt with a lot in Set 1 was, “What is the right amount of change for the game?” Early on we had B-patches and hotfixes out of necessity—we had to address things that needed to change very quickly, including bug fixes and rougher early designs. However, we saw some frustration with this, with some players feeling like it wasn’t worth investing in the game and learning the meta: Why invest deeply in the game if it was just going to change in a few days?

One of the key contributors to this was the size of the B-patches, which sometimes changed as many as 15-20 parts of the game in a single patch. We felt this was just too much change for most players to deal with.

So in the second half of Set 1, we moved away from B-patches. We drew a hard line that unless it was a major game-breaking issue, we weren’t going to hot fix it. (For example, we did not hotfix Void-Assassin in 9.18, but we did hotfix Titanic Hydra in 9.19.) We learned that there were positives to this approach in that we would see the meta shift as the weeks went on, and players began to make counter comps to the popular comps. We want to see more of this. However, this method wasn’t without frustration either, as any time something was even slightly off balance (Void-Assassin in 9.18, Infinity Edge in 9.19), engaged players were stuck with it for two weeks, leading to what felt like a stale meta.

Based on what we gathered from Set 1, we’re going to take a different approach for Set 2. The first patch of Set 2 will likely have a bigger B-patch to resolve any post-ship issues, but after that we will limit B-patches to be extremely small and only for nerfing strong outliers. This allows us to deal with some of the most extreme cases while slowing down the overall rate of change. Hopefully this will lead to a more stable Set 2, but also a less stuck one.

Bugs!
09_Bugs
This one is a bit of an obvious learning, but we want to discuss it because frankly it’s very important. Bugs are bad. We shouldn’t have bugs. Due to the rapid pace of building TFT and the content in each patch, we didn’t hit the quality bar we would have liked to, which led to days of ranked being disabled, hidden exploits, and other not great experiences.

We still have a long way to go to get everything up to the bar we think you should expect of us. But we’re committed to getting there. One thing we’re doing in Set 2 is taking a little more time to QA when we add new content. Delaying the new items from patch 9.18 to 9.19 was a step in the right direction, as it allowed us to have far fewer bugs with the new items (though admittedly we still didn’t get them all).

For Set 2, expect us to take our time to make sure we do a better job at delivering a game with less issues.

Other Things We Learned
10_TFT_Buddies
There’s a lot more we can discuss, but this is a long article, so let’s wrap up with a few final learnings.

With traits, we found that adding the extremely unlikely chase options—like nine Blademasters and nine Sorcerers—created some extremely exciting moments for players to chase after and some memorable moments when you managed to nail it. Watching a Karthus one-shot an entire team with the nine-piece Sorcerer bonus was a personal highlight for me! We’ll continue to add these types of chases in Set 2.

We also learned a lot about player damage and game pacing. When we launched, games were over far too quickly and it was almost impossible to make it to late game. After some adjustments, we ended up in a state where late game was all that mattered because the early game wasn’t doing enough. The relationship between available resources and player damage was also important, as when we added the new item distribution system, we saw a shift back to quicker games. While we learned a lot here, we don’t think we’ve gotten to the ideal state, so we’ll be making more adjustments to the pace of the game as we continue into Set 2.

Finally with our Ranked system, we’ve seen some things that work and some that don’t. We’re going to continue to make adjustments to the system as we move forward, but one change coming in Set 2 is that, no matter the conditions, getting 4th or higher should feel like a win. Losing LP when getting 4th (or in extremely rare cases, 3rd) feels real bad. So we’re changing it so that no matter what, you can’t lose LP if you place 4th or higher.

So there ya go. We learned a lot in our Set 1, and we’re so excited for you to get your hands on Set 2: Rise of the Elements!
The most recent additions to the League roster have been, how do you say… big meanies.

Earlier this year, we released Renata Glasc, the manipulative and powerful Chem-Baroness, and Bel’Veth, the monstrous manta mommy Void Empress.

But we’re breaking the cycle with a surge of joy named Nilah ("Nee-lah").

Her Waters Cut Deep
Nilah’s development started with a core gameplay idea: a melee skirmisher ADC. The goal was to create a new experience not only for bot laners, but also for Yasuo or Yone mains who might want to try their hand (sword?) at another position. We know, we know... before you bot and support mains turn caps lock on, keep reading.

The team really didn’t want to create another sad Ionian sword boi. With this in mind, concept artist Nancy “Riot Sojyoo” Kim began looking into weapons that might fit the bill and stumbled upon the urumi, a flexible whip-like sword with South Asian origins. This worked out beautifully, as the team wanted to increase South Asian representation in League. Similar to how we've approached champions like Samira, Akshan, or Zeri, we want players from everywhere to see reflections of themselves in League, and we were lacking South Asian representation, especially for women.

062222_01_Whip_Concepts.jpg

The urumi fit Nilah’s intended background, her melee gameplay, and is just really, really cool. Plus, whips were essentially missing in League. The idea had been floated before, but never quite made it onto the Rift.

“When Nancy’s first group of concepts came back, there was one with, like, six arms and one with a more traditional talwar (curved sword),” says principal narrative writer Jared “Carnival Knights” Rosen. “But when we saw the concept with the urumi we were like ‘Oh my god, do we not have a whip champion? There has to be one. Maybe Zyra? No, she’s a plant lady. Anybody else?’ And there just wasn’t anyone.”

“It felt like the perfect time to finally create a whip-wielding champion because the urumi is a good nod to her South Asian inspiration and it fits her gameplay,” Riot Sojyoo adds.

062222_02_Nilah_Concepts.jpg

But making a whip-sword look realistic and feel good in game was a challenge. Have you ever seen an urumi in action? Recreating the snappy yet flowing movements was a challenge for the animation team.

“We spent extra time early on to determine if a fluid, satisfying whip was a weapon we could achieve with the tools we usually use,” says lead animator Drew “sandwichtown” Morgan. “We tried a few different approaches to help sell the physics, but ended up landing on a mostly hand-animated style, with some different technical tricks layered in there.”

Before continuing, we should talk about the difference between tool-based animation and hand animation. A lot of modern games utilize physics and simulation with engine tools, but Nilah’s whip needed to be custom animated just for her. This meant sandwichtown set all the keys and animated every frame of motion.

“I think the most challenging part was just how many attack animations that were required to make all the motions feel directionally appropriate, at different distances with different conditions,” sandwichtown explains.

062222_03_Animation.gif

Animation testing of Nilah’s basic attack.

But Nilah’s whip isn’t just any old whip. It’s a two-pronged, flexible water-sword that she unsheathes from a magical jar that sits on her hip. Honestly, it’s pretty cracked. So obviously it needed some extra visual attention.

“To convey a joyfulness to her visual effects and not have it look like ‘just water,’ I added a sense of iridescence and rainbow to her abilities,” explains VFX artist Megan “Fairy Flan” Bayona. “In a way it's as if the influence of the demon of joy refracts outwards and Nilah uses it as her strength.”

062222_04_Ability.gif

Nilah’s water whip hits with the force of a rogue wave, only sharp.

Joy Unbound
Yep, you heard Fairy Flan right. Nilah channels the power of a demon of joy to slay mythical beasts and defeat her enemies. She’s an epic, monster-slaying hero who’s building out her own legend day by day. (Editor’s note: Let’s be real, would this be a Carnival Knights champ without demons?)

An ascetic warrior, Nilah practices a strict code of rite and ritual that gives her power over Ashlesh, an ancient demon of joy who was sealed away eons ago.

Ashlesh is a member of The Ten, the oldest and most powerful demons in existence. It pushes joy to its hideous extremes, feeding on the dark, inverted aspects of the emotion, like delirium and obsession. But Nilah has harnessed Ashlesh’s power to do good.

Nilah didn’t always have these otherworldly powers. Once upon a time, she was a normal girl with a normal life—until she wasn’t.

“She goes beneath her home city and disappears for a decade. When she emerges, she immediately starts putting down demi-gods and giant dragons that are bigger than mountains. She’s fighting creatures that should not be able to be defeated,” explains Carnival Knights.

But wielding Ashlesh’s immense power comes with a heavy burden: Nilah is erased from living memory. There is no record of her ever being born. She is a stranger to all she ever knew, even her own family.

062222_05_Full_Nilah.jpg

“She returns not as this bookworm, but as a wiry stranger with heroic strength. She has no past and her future is unwritten. She’s literally lost herself to joy,” says Carnival Knights, noting that Nilah’s unflinching positivity is completely involuntary. “Ashlesh annihilates her entire emotional spectrum besides joy. She can observe that she is feeling other things, or that she wants to feel other things. There’s a lot of sadness and loss in her life, but she can’t feel anything but positive towards it, which is conflicting.”

She’s truly living her best life… whether she likes it or not.

“Very much like a hero from the Ramayana, she has given up everything for this incredible power and uses it to protect the world from ancient threats that have been long thought invincible,” Carnival Knights explains.

062222_06_Portrait.jpg

Nilah originates from Kathkan, a country southeast of (and once rival of) ancient Camavor. Based on South and Southeast Asia, it is a place of dazzling colors, rich history, and ancient myths—legends of heroes, gods, demons and monsters abound in Kathkan.

There, Nilah is pledged to a powerful organization called “The Seventh Layer.” This group of heroes guards Ashlesh’s spiritual prison and protects the Kathkani people, who have long lived in peace. These heroes, who all have a connection to Ashlesh, help to keep the joy demon weak so it can’t escape its prison.

In honor of the Seventh Layer, seven is a motif you’ll see a lot with Nilah, both in her look and in her abilities.

“Some of the design elements that we tried to put in her outfit were the seven hands that represent the Seventh Layer. You can see it in the jewelry that she has…One of them is engraved in her kneepad,” says Riot Sojyoo, noting that the art team wanted to convey Nilah’s ascetic warrior identity, while keeping her clothing practical for slaying mythical beasts. “Because she’s a very nimble character, we wanted to make sure her outfit wasn’t restricting and it was light and it allowed her to do a lot of jumps and tricks.”

062222_07_Seven_Hands.png

Legend has it Ashlesh has seven arms and is trapped in the seventh layer of an underworld.

Now, the wider world of Runeterra will bear witness to Nilah's legendary powers.

After the Ruination, Nilah leaves Kathkan and decides to cross the ocean to Bilgewater to seek information on Viego—who is now imprisoned on her home continent—and The Ten. And she might as well hang around Oyster Bill’s Oyster Bar and slay some sea serpents who are rampaging around the docks while she’s at it.

062222_08_Nilah_Splash.jpg

Nilah’s goal is to do good wherever she goes, expanding the epic tale of her life—and to keep up with her ritual prayers so she stays in full control of Ashlesh.

“This is one of the most powerful women on the planet, and she spends almost all of every day sitting around in the dark, reading books or reciting prayers to make sure that she’s not possessed by a demon. And then occasionally she gets up, kills like a 40-story tall sea serpent and then goes back to doing the thing she was doing before,” says Carnival Knights. “In the parlance of our time, she gives no f*&^s.”

The Star of the Show
Outside of being an absolute monster-slaying badass possessed by an ancient joy demon, Nilah is designed to be a hypercarry—but she can’t go it alone. Just like her pledge to the Seventh Layer, Nilah’s allegiance to your team will help it reach its full potential.

While she has the weaknesses you’d expect to find in a melee bot laner (like being susceptible to every single spell from the enemy “support” mage), she makes up for them when her allies rally around her. When there’s an ally nearby, she has tools that relieve some of the burden of CS’ing well and managing laning phase without any CC.

Her passive, for example, allows her to amplify and share healing and shielding that’s done to her or that her nearby allies do to themselves.

062222_09_Heal_Sharing.gif

Yasuo mains, now you can stop begging your team to pick knock-up champs and start begging them to pick enchanters.

“If she is with a character who has some sort of shield or heal, then she’s making them better. And at the same time, she’s sort of selfishly taking more for herself too,” explains senior game designer Blake “Squad5” Smith.

Nilah’s passive also includes an XP bonus that she shares with a nearby ally—but she has to last-hit minions to get it. So stay off her wave, Zyra mains.

“Her passive basically says, if you support me, I will make us win,” Squad5 laughs. But even though sharing is caring, she’s perfect for the player who wants to show off a little. “More so than almost every other character in the game, Nilah says put the spotlight on me. There’s a lot of pressure that goes along with playing her. But if you want to be the star, and you want to kill everybody, this is a great character to pick.”

062222_10_Final_Concept.jpg

The killing everybody part doesn’t come easily though. Nilah isn’t the type of champ that will simply snowball and dominate lane.

“We wanted to make sure she was not like a Jarvan or Pantheon lane where they’re just repeatedly killing you over and over and over again ‘cause that’s all they can do,” Squad5 says. “She actually needs to function in a way that feels familiar to bot lane players in that she wants to farm and is more oriented around trading. She’s not constantly going for those all-ins like other melee bot laners.”

062222_11_Whirlpool.gif

The rest of Nilah’s kit shows off the true splendor of her magical water weapon. She can strike out in a line with her urumi, veil herself in mist, dash as though sliding over iridescent water, and pull enemies into her wake with her ultimate, an effervescent whirlpool.

“The idea is that she can lash out with the whip, dash into enemy targets, do her whirlpool ultimate, pull everybody in, hit them with the Q, and then just be sweeping auto attacks on all of them at the same time,” Squad5 laughs. “Her sustained area of effect damage is extremely good and should hopefully mean that she’s a top tier team fighter.”

Basically, get Nilah in a teamfight in late game and all bets are off. She’ll be demoralizing the enemy team in no time—with a smile and a laugh.